Innovating for
Greater Futures
Integrated
Annual
Report

21
22

Content
About TCS…………………………...........................................................03
Board of Directors………………………….........................................04
Management Team………………..............…........................………..05

Q&A with Finance and HR.............................................................42

St a n d al o n e Fi n an c i al S t ate m e nt s

Helping RS Components Deepen Customer
Relationships and Drive Profitable Growth........................45

Independent Auditors’ Report............................................318

Boosting Colruyt’s Competitiveness with
Algorithmic Pricing.............................................................................46

Standalone Balance Sheet......................................................331
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss.................. 333

Letter from the Chairman………………........................................06

Transforming India’s Lending Sector with a New
Digital Platform.....................................................................................47

Letter from the CEO……..……………………..................................09

S t atu tor y Secti on

Standalone Statement of Cash Flows..........................337

The Year Gone By…………………………..........................................14

Notice..........................................................................................................48

Integ rate d Re p or t ing Framewo rk

Directors’ Report.................................................................................82

Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial
Statements........................................................................................339

TCS Integrated Business Model……..........................................19

Management Discussion and Analysis................................ 107

Financial Capital...............…………………………................................20

Corporate Governance Report............................................... 137

Human Capital......…………………………............................................22

Awards and Accolades.................................................................... 166

Intellectual Capital...................................………........................……..24

Corporate Sustainability Report............................................. 174

Relationship and Social Capital...........……........................…….28

Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report..... 186

Natural Capital.......................................................................................31

C on s oli dated Fi n a n ci a l St atements

Th em atic S e c t ion

Independent Auditors’ Report......................……..............233

Partnering with Takeda to Innovate at Scale.....................33

Consolidated Balance Sheet.................................................243

Co-Innovating with Bovemij to Fulfill its Mission and
Drive Growth......................................................................................... 34

Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss..............245

Innovating for Greater Futures: A Panel
Discussion................................................................................................ 35

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity......247

Transforming Israel’s Banking Sector.................................... 40

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows………............250

Enabling Swiss Re’s Risk Partnership Strategy for
Future Growth..................................................................................... 41

Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial
Statements………....................................................................….....252

Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity.......... 334

Statement under section 129 of the Companies
Act, 2013 relating to Subsidiary Companies...........398

G loss ar y ......................................................................................402
G RI A n n e xu re s
Identification of Material Topics.........................................412
GRI Content Index........................................................................416

| 1

About

TCS

Tata Consultancy Services is an IT services,
consulting and business solutions organization that
has been partnering with many of the world’s largest
businesses in their transformation journeys for over
50 years. TCS offers a consulting-led, cognitive
powered, integrated portfolio of business, technology
and engineering services and solutions. This is
delivered through its unique Location Independent
AgileTM delivery model, recognized as a benchmark of
excellence in software development.
A part of the Tata group, India’s largest multinational
business group, TCS has over 592,000 of the world’s
best-trained consultants in 55 countries. The company
generated consolidated revenues of US $25.7 billion
in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, and is listed
on the BSE (formerly Bombay Stock Exchange) and
the NSE (National Stock Exchange) in India.
TCS’ proactive stance on climate change and awardwinning work with communities across the world
have earned it a place in leading sustainability indices
such as the MSCI Global Sustainability Index and the
FTSE4Good Emerging Index. For more information,
visit us at www.tcs.com.

Recent Annual Report Themes

Theme
This year’s theme, 'Innovating for Greater Futures' refers
to the accelerated innovation witnessed in enterprises across
the world, as they shift from improvising to cope with the
challenges of the pandemic, to growth and transformation.
Accelerated adoption of the cloud is opening up all kinds
of possibilities in product and business model innovation.
Enterprises are seeking technology-led solutions to help
realize their sustainability goals. The cloud is enabling
boundaryless collaboration across industries, enabling
innovative new offerings. Technology is at the heart of all this
innovation, and clients are increasingly partnering with TCS
to drive innovation at scale.
TCS has been innovating for greater futures too. Its
investments in research and innovation, intellectual property,
its worldwide network of Pace Port co-innovation hubs,
and in building newer capabilities and acquiring contextual
knowledge are helping win transformational business.
Delivery model innovations such as its AI-powered Machine
First approach, and platform-driven, outcome-based
business models are helping clients reimagine their
operations. All of these are helping the company
drive holistic growth and create immense value for its
stakeholders.

FY 2021
Building on Belief

FY 2020
Purpose-Driven. Resilient.Adaptable.

FY 2019
Growth and Transformation
with Business 4.0TM

FY 2018
Dawn of
Business 4.0TM

FY 2017
Reimagining the Enterprise
About Us | 3

Board of Directors

Average Age (years)

Average Tenure on the Board (years)

61

06
71

51

15

03

Board Independence (%)

56%

44%

Independent

Non-Independent

Average Tenure of Independent
Directors on the Board (years)
I

05
10

03

Independent, Non-Executive Director

NE Non-Independent, Executive Director

From left to right
Keki M
Mistry
C

C

M

I

N Chandrasekaran
Chairman
C

C

M N

M M

N G Subramaniam
COO

Hanne Sorensen

M M NE

M M

I

M M M NE

Aarthi
Subramanian

Dr Pradeep Kumar
Khosla

Don Callahan

M N

C

M

I

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO & MD

C Chairman

M Member

Audit Committee
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee

M M

I

Executive Committee
Risk Management Committee*

O P Bhatt
C

Board Committees

Non-Independent,
N Non-Executive Director

I

*Samir Seksaria (Chief Financial Officer) is also a member of the Committee
Board of Directors | 4

Management Team
Business Heads

Corporate
Rajesh Gopinathan
Chief Executive Officer
and Managing Director

Rajashree R
Chief Marketing
Officer

Susheel Vasudevan
Relationship Incubation
Group

Suresh Muthuswami
Chairman – TCS North
America

N G Subramaniam
Chief Operating Officer
and Executive Director

K Ananth Krishnan
Chief Technology
Officer

Krishnan Ramanujam
Enterprise Growth Group

Amit Bajaj
North America

Samir Seksaria
Chief Financial Officer

Madhav Anchan
General Counsel Legal

Debashis Ghosh
Business Transformation
Group

Sapthagiri Chapalapalli
Europe

Milind Lakkad
Chief Human Resources
Officer

Pradeep Manohar
Gaitonde
Company Secretary

K Krithivasan
Banking, Financial Services
and Insurance

Amit Kapur
UK & Ireland

Management Team | 5

Letter from the

Chairman

The supply chain upheavals during the past couple of years
are driving a shift towards rebalancing and resilience. As
companies seek real-time data to transform their supply
chains, AI and predictive analytics help capture insights
and react to changing conditions. Your company is helping
companies reconfigure their supply chains to ensure that
they can serve their customers and stakeholders on time.

Letter from the Chairman | 6

Dear Stakeholder,
The past couple of years have been a period of
intense action and reflection. We have seen a
global pandemic, geopolitical tensions, supply chain
disruptions, the rise of cryptocurrency and many other
public and private upheavals. As the dust settles, and a
clearer picture of the world ahead emerges, I believe
we are standing at the threshold of a period of great
opportunity and growth.
In the face of widespread change, your company has
shown remarkable resilience and adaptability, coming
out stronger than ever, after catastrophic events like
the global financial crisis or the pandemic.
In FY 2022, your company crossed a milestone of
$25 billion in revenues, experiencing strong growth
of 15.9%, adding an all-time high incremental
revenues of $3.5 billion. Even more satisfyingly, this
growth has come with an industry-leading operating
margin of 25.3%. Since the start of the last decade,
the company has grown over four times, comfortably
outperforming its largest global competitors. This
growth is the source of our energy and vibrancy,
reflected in the 17.7% growth in market value to
`13,83,427 crore in the past year.

The change in technology consumption reflects
the prevailing trends in the economy. Recent events
have accelerated digital adoption, put the spotlight
on supply chain resilience and added urgency to the
sustainability imperative. Each of these represents an
opportunity that can contribute towards the growth
of not just your company, but of the ecosystem as a
whole.
Digital transformation is now an integral part of the
functioning of enterprises, governments and societies.
Your company continues to play a critical role in
this transformation, helping clients embrace new
technologies, initially to cope with the crisis, and since
then, to innovate at scale and grow their businesses.
As a fitness enthusiast, I can tell you that the only
way to transform in the long term is by strengthening
one’s core. It is no different for organizations. We work
with large enterprises to simplify their technology
landscape and strengthen their core by building
a cloud-based digital foundation and embedding
intelligent automation into their operations so they
can focus on building memorable experiences for their
customers.
Artificial intelligence and data are key differentiators for
enterprises today. TCS helps its customers stay ahead
of the game by investing in research and innovation,
tapping the intellectual capital within the organization

and also of our ecosystem through our Co-Innovation
Network which includes leading academic institutions
and start-ups working on cutting-edge technologies.
Our insights and foresight are also crystallized in the
form of AI-powered products and platforms that give
customers actionable intelligence.
Another area that is a priority for me at the Tata group
is sustainability and integrating that into business
decision-making and business models. Your company
is partnering with clients in taking up community
initiatives jointly, in sharing best practices around
diversity and inclusion, and importantly, in helping
them achieve their sustainability objectives using
technology. In addition to reducing its own carbon
footprint in its journey to be net zero by 2030, your
company is helping the world’s largest corporations
in developing and executing their sustainability
roadmaps, deploying its portfolio of intellectual
property and services to help them track their
emissions, reduce their carbon footprint and get closer
to their net zero goals.
The supply chain upheavals during the past couple
of years are driving a shift towards rebalancing
and resilience. As companies seek real-time data
to transform their supply chains, AI and predictive
analytics help capture insights and react to changing
conditions—from widescale disruptions to individual
customer complaints. Your company is helping

Letter from the Chairman | 7

companies reconfigure their supply chains in many
ways, including rolling out connected logistics to
efficiently manage business disruption and ensure that
they can serve their customers and stakeholders on
time.
I strongly believe that technology is at its most
transformational when combined with the strength
of human capital. In FY 2022, our employee strength
grew to 592,195 with a record net addition of
103,546 employees. You will be proud of the way
your company supported its employees and their
families in dealing with the pandemic, including
organizing what was perhaps the largest vaccination
drive in corporate India for employees and families of
not just TCS, but also of its extended ecosystem of
partners and other group companies.
In turn, our employees have shown remarkable
resilience, loyalty and tenacity in ensuring that our
customers are not impacted, despite significant
personal challenges. I salute their spirit.
Our purpose is anchored in the well-being of all our
stakeholders, and the communities we operate in are
very important stakeholders for us. Drawing from the
legacy of the Tata group, we work closely with our
communities to create equitable, inclusive pathways
for all, especially women, youth and marginalized
groups.

We leverage four forms of capital - Intellectual,
Technological, Human, and Financial - to bridge
the opportunity gap for people and communities.
Our primary focus areas are education, skilling,
employment, and entrepreneurship. Additionally, we
invest in basic health and wellness, water sanitation
and hygiene, conservation, and disaster relief efforts.

I look forward to sharing with you more milestones
in this journey in the coming years. On behalf of the
Board of Directors of Tata Consultancy Services,
I want to thank you for your continued trust,
confidence, and support.

Since 2015, your company has invested $634 million
in its community initiatives and empowered millions
of people globally, primarily underserved students,
minorities, youth, women and elders, to be literate,
healthy, educated, digitally skilled, become rural
entrepreneurs and gain employment.

Warm regards,
N Chandrasekaran
Chairman

As we look ahead to the future, we go back to a
key pillar of our strategy – customer centricity. Our
organization structure, our investments in new
capabilities and intellectual property, our delivery
models and contracting structures have all been
shaped by our clients’ needs. Our new organization
structure is designed to make every client continue
to feel deeply valued, and to leverage TCS’ rich set of
capabilities and contextual knowledge to transform,
grow and build better futures. With scale and by
steadily expanding its transformation capabilities, TCS
is moving from pursuing opportunities, to shaping
those opportunities in the years ahead.

Letter from the Chairman | 8

Letter from the

CEO

1

Dear Stakeholder,
With near normalcy all around, the pain and suffering
caused by the pandemic at the start of the year seem
so distant now. But the memories of TCSers and their
loved ones we lost during the year will forever remain
with us. My thoughts and prayers are with everyone
who endured the loss of friends and family members
to the pandemic.
Given that context, I am grateful that on the business
front we have much to feel happy about and celebrate.
It has been a highly satisfactory year of consistently
strong, profitable growth. In rupee terms, our revenue
was `191,754 crore, which is growth of 16.8%
(15.4% in constant currency).
Our profitability continues to be industry-leading,
with the operating margin at 25.3%, and net margin
at 20%. Our Earnings Per Share was at `103.62,
growing 16.1%* over the prior year.
GRI 2-22
*Excluding provision towards legal claim in prior year.
1

Our new purpose-designed organization structure,
along with continued investments in building
newer capabilities, next generation delivery models
and assets that help our clients innovate at scale,
and in building our brand, will help us deepen our
customer relationships, expand our addressable
market, gain market share and power growth in the
years ahead.

Our cash conversion continues to be very strong,
with a cash conversion ratio of 104.2% and free
cash flow of `36,985 crore.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of
`22 for the year, bringing the total dividend for
the year to `43 per share. Additionally, during the
year, we successfully completed our fourth buyback
in five years, to the tune of `18,000 crore,
representing a total payout of `38,010 crore
including buyback tax of `4,192 crore paid out in
April 2022. This amounts to over 102.8% of the
free cash flow.

Letter from the CEO | 9

Beyond the headline numbers, we are pleased with
the holistic nature of the growth, broad-based
across all our industry verticals and major markets,
and with a steadily expanding number of growth and
transformation engagements in the portfolio.
Growth was led by Retail and Consumer Business
which was impacted the most during the pandemic
and which has bounced back strongly, growing
20.0%. Manufacturing grew 16.7%, Banking,
Financial Services and Insurance grew 14.5% and
Communications, Media and Technology grew 17.7%.
Life Sciences and Healthcare grew 20.6% and Others
which makes up 7.8% of revenues grew 15.5%.
All our major markets grew in the mid-teens or above.
North America grew 18.7%, Continental Europe
grew 15.2% and UK grew 18.5%. Among emerging
markets, Latin America grew 18.6%, India grew 16%,
Middle East & Africa grew 16.3% while Asia Pacific
grew 6.9%.
Innovating for Greater Futures
Our outstanding performance this year, and the
strong demand for our services that drove it, can
be traced back to the innovation that enterprises
scrambled to adopt at the start of the pandemic, to
engage with customers digitally and to improve their
operational resilience.
The cloud adoption trends strengthened further in FY
2022, with more clients embarking on multi-horizon

cloud transformation journeys . However, the mindsets
have changed. During the year, enterprises moved
from thinking of technology-led innovation as a way
of coping with pandemic challenges, to looking at it as
a means of powering their growth and transformation
(G&T), especially in the case of clients who had already
moved their most critical workloads to the cloud.
While G&T initiatives tend to be business focused and
technology agnostic, immense possibilities for business
transformation open up once enterprises move some
of their workloads to the hyperscaler cloud. This is
triggering a wave of business innovation in the form of
Horizon Two or Horizon Three initiatives by our clients.
In FY 2022, we won deals addressing a broad
gamut of G&T objectives such as M&A, newer ways
of working, product innovation, business model
innovation and innovations around improved customer
experience. We have been providing examples of
these in our recent annual reports, including this
year’s report.
A new trend this year was the growing volume of
sustainability-related innovation, a good indicator how
this has become a top priority item on most CEO
agendas. We have leveraged our deep expertise in
IoT, advanced analytics, and machine learning to come
up with a suite of offerings in this space, including
intellectual property such as Clever Energy™, IP2™
and TCS Envirozone™. Clients across industries such
as retail, manufacturing, utilities and consumer goods

are engaging us to develop innovative technologyled solutions to reduce energy consumption, or to
measure and track green-house gas emissions across
their end-to-end supply chain, reduce their carbon
footprint, reduce waste and promote recycling.
We are very proud of the steadily expanding number
of G&T deals in our order book because each such
win represents market share gain for TCS from legacy
consulting organizations which have traditionally
dominated this space. It is an outcome of our sustained
investments in creating enabling capabilities within the
organization, be it in cultivating contextual knowledge,
or research and innovation, building intellectual
property, deepening digital expertise, cultivating
technology partnerships and building our brand.
The growing component of G&T revenue in our
portfolio is also evidence that our differentiated,
inside-out approach to transformation is resonating
well with our clients. Our collaborative ways, and
focus on harnessing collective contextual knowledge
results in better buy-in for the transformation from
stakeholders across the organization, setting it up for
success. Our brand statement, `Building on Belief’, has
also found strong resonance in the market, instilling
hope into business and trust in the enterprise.
All-time High Order Book
All this is not to say that Horizon One spending, the
investments that enterprises make at the start of their
cloud journeys, while migrating to a new cloud-based
Letter from the CEO | 10

digital core, is coming to an end as a key demand
driver. Far from it, we saw strong deal flow right
through the year from Horizon One initiatives.
The sheer scale, depth of consulting expertise and
full-service capabilities of our dedicated business
units on each of the three large hyperscalers, and the
investments we have made in building a rich portfolio
of accelerators and toolsets for automating application
and data estate modernization and cloud migration
give us a distinct edge in this opportunity.
Clients engaged us for some, or all, of the activities,
starting from cloud assessment, business case
preparation, roadmap creation, ERP consolidation
and migration, application and data modernization
and cloud migration. When core applications are
re-engineered using cloud-native architectures,
or on-premise ERP is moved to SaaS, it is not just
a technology transformation but also a business
transformation.
Such cloud transformation engagements are material,
multi-year transformation engagements which when
completed, result in resilient, future-ready digital
technology stacks that enable leaner, more agile
operations and very importantly, serve as a scalable
foundation for their innovation and growth.
Partnering with our clients in this initial phase is
important not only for the sheer volume of business
involved, but also because it is a gateway to the
unbounded opportunity that the downstream
innovation and transformation represent. The granular

contextual knowledge of our clients’ business and
technology landscapes, gained while executing
Horizon One and other ADM programs, are critical
for our ability to proactively pitch innovative ideas and
solutions for their growth and transformation.
The other big demand driver was outsourcing of
business and IT operations. There were three key
reasons why enterprises outsourced more in FY
2022: the need to free up people as well as financial
resources to execute their growth and transformation
initiatives; talent scarcity especially in digital
technologies, made worse by the Great Resignation;
and the desire for leaner and more resilient IT and
business operations. During the year, we saw many
instances where clients engaged TCS to transform
their operating models, and then manage those
operations on their behalf.
Here too, our delivery model innovation, the Machine
First™ approach, helped us win many large deals and
gain share over pure play outsourcing companies.
Our transformational approach embeds powerful
technologies like machine vision, machine learning,
and our AI-powered intellectual property such as
ignio™ and Cognix™ into the core of our clients’
processes, transforming the human-machine interface
and delivering much leaner, faster and more resilient
business and IT operations.
Throughout the year, these three trends – increased
spend on innovation and transformation, cloud
migration and outsourcing – drove a strong flow of

deals of all sizes. The total contract value of deals
signed in the first three quarters averaged between
$7-8 billion per quarter, capped by an all-time high
order book of $11.3 billion in the fourth quarter. The
robustness of the deal flow at the close of the year
becomes evident when even after excluding the two
mega deals of roughly a billion dollars each won in
Q4, the order book TCV in Q4 was $9.5 billion, which
is also an all-time high. The full year order book was
$34.6 billion, our highest ever, representing a book
to bill ratio of 1.3.
New Benchmarks in People Management
Our purpose-driven approach to business and
our values have shaped TCS’ culture and work
environment. We believe in investing in our people
and giving them opportunities to realize their full
potential. We believe in decentralized decisionmaking, in empowering leaders on the front lines, and
in providing them all the support they need in their
journeys. We also believe in treating the organization
as an extended family, and standing by each member
in their hour of need. This was best demonstrated
in our response to the brutal second wave of the
pandemic at the start of FY 2022. We scaled up
our employee engagement, provided hospitalization
support and access to Covid care centers at our
facilities in 13 cities and undertook a massive –
possibly the largest of its kind, pan-India vaccination
drive, covering over a million individuals – employees
and their dependents.
Letter from the CEO | 11

This philosophy, and our progressive policies and work
culture have resulted in a very strong employer brand,
validated by several third-party assessments and
accolades during the year. This played an critical role
in helping your company cope with the industry-wide
supply side challenges during the year.
To support the strong growth momentum in FY
2022, we flexed the strength of that employer brand
to set new benchmarks and cross new milestones
in attracting and managing talent at scale across the
world. Our workforce crossed the half-million mark in
the first half of the year, and we ended the year with a
headcount of 592,195, an all-time high net addition
of 103,546 employees.
The workforce remains a highly diverse one, with
over 153 nationalities represented. We crossed
an important diversity milestone this year, with the
number of women in the workforce exceeding
200,000. We are also making progress, slowly but
steadily, in improving gender diversity in the senior
management ranks. Through focused leadership
development programs, the number of women senior
executives has grown 84% over the last 5 years,
significantly higher than the male cohort.
Organic talent development continues to be a key
focus area in our journey to be a G&T partner to
more of our clients. TCSers collectively logged
60.3 million learning hours and acquired over
3.5 million digital competencies in FY 2022. Very
importantly, the number of Contextual Masters in the

organization crossed 50,000 this year, 24% of them
women.
The year also witnessed a sharp rise in employee
turnover across the industry. TCS’ attrition in IT
services (LTM) was 17.4% in FY 2022. Despite the
increase, your company stood out with the lowest
attrition in the industry and remained the benchmark
for talent retention.
Community and planet
We continued to work with communities across the
world, pursuing our long-standing commitment to
programs in the areas of health, STEM education,
skills development and the bridging of digital divides.
These programs are scaling well in reach as well as
depth of impact, touching the lives of over 1.7 million
beneficiaries – women, youth and marginalized people.
To maximize the impact of our programs, we are now
partnering with our customers in these initiatives. We
engaged with 850 business leaders and teams, across
146 customer organizations and connected with over
50 government leaders on collaborative community
efforts.
TCSers have also been quick to respond to the
humanitarian tragedy in Ukraine, helping in rescue
efforts, relief assistance, resilience support. To address
the urgent needs of children, women, and those facing
food insecurity, TCS is making a financial contribution
of 1 million Euros to international humanitarian

organizations like the UNICEF and the European
Food Banks Federation which are helping support war
refugees streaming into neighboring countries. We
are also matching funds raised by employees, families,
and their networks, up to 500,000 Euros, as donation
to these two organizations.
On the environment front, we have good progress
to report in our journey to become net zero by
2030 . Our absolute carbon footprint across Scope
1 and Scope 2 emissions reduced by 66% over base
year 2016 due to focused initiatives around energy
efficiency and transition to renewable energy. We
made a big leap on the latter, with use of renewable
energy across TCS’ global operations growing to
37.2% of the total (15.6% in FY 2021).
Looking Ahead
Our all-time high order book, continued deal flow and
pipeline velocity give us confidence in the sustainability
of our business momentum. We are in the midst of
a multi-year technology upgrade cycle that provides
strong, structural growth drivers for the next few
years.
The geo-political tensions in Europe and the resultant
impact on global economic growth are real threats.
However, the pandemic has shown us that enterprise
spending on technology is far more resilient than
most people credit it for. It is central to organizations’
ability to innovate and differentiate in good times,
and to survive and adapt in tough times. While
Letter from the CEO | 12

evolving market dynamics may prompt reprioritizing of
programs, we are confident that technology spending
itself will continue to grow. That growth and our
expanding market share give us confidence of being
able to sustain a certain base case growth, with room
to maximize in better years.

do, making them feel special, and investing in newer
capabilities to create value in newer areas of their
businesses, has paid us rich dividends. Regardless
of how large we get, we want to make sure that
our customer focus never wavers, and every client
continues to feel just as valued.

service lines to stitch together solutions that address
our clients’ business needs when the relationship
is in its hyper growth phase; and the Business
Transformation Group that will manage our largest
clients and help them accomplish their growth and
transformation objectives.

At our current pace of growth, it is only a matter
of time before we double our revenues and hit the
$50 billion mark. In our journey to that next logical
milestone, we are focused on not only our velocity,
but also on ensuring we get there fighting fit, so it
does not become a finish line to stumble across, but a
launchpad to achieve even greater heights. For this to
happen we are focusing on two things.

We have rolled out a new organization structure that
will help us achieve these two imperatives. It retains
the atomicity of our earlier architecture, and its three
dimensions – industry verticals, horizontal service
lines and geography-based sales. We have now added
a fourth dimension, the stage of the customer’s
relationship journey with TCS.

As clients progress in their relationship journeys, the
account ownership will seamlessly transition from
one group to the next, with all three groups working
in synchrony to make sure that every client gets a
curated experience and that we steadily progress
every client relationship to the highest level of
maturity with TCS being their preferred growth and
transformation partner.

One, we want to arrive at that milestone with a more
balanced portfolio, with a much larger proportion of
business transformation revenues, so we have two
equally strong growth engines for the journey ahead.
For this, we want to build on our initial successes in
the G&T opportunity, and put in place a structured
way to deepen existing innovation and transformation
engagements, while expanding the number of clients
for whom we provide such services.
Second, as we get larger, we shouldn’t lose sight
of what has brought us thus far – our customer
centricity. Our success stems from the fact that year
after year, our clients reward us with more work,
and rank us #1 in customer satisfaction across all
the service providers they work with. Our approach
of putting the client at the center of everything we

That journey begins when a client first signs up for
some initial work. When we successfully deliver, they
give us more work and that is how the relationship
starts growing. As trust levels steadily go up, they start
viewing TCS as a strategic partner and consolidate
more and more of their technology requirements with
us. That is how we have steadily grown and deepened
relationships with nearly 60 clients globally who spend
more than $100 million on us annually.
We have rearranged existing units into three business
groups, each aligned to a particular phase in the
customer relationship journey: the Relationship
Incubation Group that will provide the high-touch,
high engagement, delivery-focused model that
new clients require; the Enterprise Growth Group
which will do what today’s TCS does best, that is,
pull together capabilities from across the different

This new purpose-designed organization structure,
along with continued investments in building newer
capabilities, next generation delivery models and
assets that help our clients innovate at scale, and in
building our brand, will help us deepen our customer
relationships, expand our addressable market, gain
market share and power growth in the years ahead.
We thank you for your continued support in this
exciting journey ahead.
Warm regards,
Rajesh Gopinathan
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director

Letter from the CEO | 13

The Year Gone By

Q4

Won a very large contract from
a Fortune 100 US company,
further expanding the long-standing
partnership, to transform the
technology at its global data centers
into a future-ready, hybrid cloud stack for greater
agility, flexibility, and improved operational resilience.
TCS will also deploy a new cognitive-powered
operating model to run that stack, to improve the
availability of business applications and enhance user
experience.
Selected by Payments Canada, the country’s largest
payment organization, to transform its payment
system operations and help implement the RealTime Rail (RTR), the new real-time payments system
that will allow Canadians to initiate payments and
receive irrevocable funds in seconds, 24/7/365. TCS
will leverage its deep knowledge of the payments
domain, and extensive experience in designing and
implementing large payment systems for clients
across the world to help Payments Canada create and
execute an integration roadmap for the RTR.
Completed the fourth successful share buyback
in five years, to the tune of ₹18,000 crore at
₹4,500 per share, through the tender offer route,
extinguishing 4 crore equity shares, representing
1.08% of the total paid-up equity share capital.

With three decades of
experience in delivering market
infrastructure solutions, TCS
will be a valuable partner in the
delivery of the Real-Time Rail.
Testing and deployment is a
critical step in the introduction
of the new real-time payment
system and we’re excited to
work with TCS to execute on
this next step for the RTR as
we help shape the future of
payments in Canada.
John Cowan,
Chief Technology & Operations
Officer, Payments Canada

Announced a new organization structure designed
to provide a curated experience to each customer
depending on where they are in the customer
relationship lifecycle journey. Leveraging TCS’
large and deep bench of leadership talent, the new
structure further deepens the customer-centricity
that TCS was always known for, and is expected
to help make TCS the preferred growth and
transformation partner to more of its clientele.
Announced plans to grow operations in New Jersey
by hiring nearly 1,000 more employees by the
end-2023 to meet the strong demand for digital
transformation. This follows a similar announcement
earlier, to expand in Arizona by investing more
than $300 million by 2026 and hiring over 220
employees by 2023. In both states, TCS will also
grow the reach of its STEM and computer science
education programs, expanding teacher training and
student programs.
Became the #2 most valuable brand in the IT
services sector globally, according to Brand Finance,
the world’s leading brand valuation firm. According
to the Brand Finance 2022 Global 500 IT Services
Ranking report, TCS grew its brand value by $1.8
billion (+12.5%) year on year, to $16.8 billion in
2021.

The Year Gone By | 14

Tata Group Chairperson and TCS Chairman,
N Chandrasekaran, was conferred the
Padma Bhushan, the third highest civilian award in
India, for distinguished service of high order in the field
of trade and industry.

and reliability, the Passport Seva program became an
icon of Digital India and a source of national pride.

Ranked #1 in Customer Satisfaction in the largest
survey of European businesses by Whitelane
Research, for the ninth consecutive year, covering
1,800 CxOs from top IT spending companies in
Europe. TCS’ Overall Satisfaction Score was 84% with
the lead over the nearest competitor expanding to 4
percentage points vs 1 percentage point in the prior
year.
Named the new title sponsor and official IT services
and technology consulting partner of the Toronto

Waterfront Marathon and Virtual Race through
November 2026. Additionally, TCS renewed its title
and technology sponsorship of the TCS New York
City Marathon through 2029, and became the new
title and technology sponsor of the TCS London
Marathon for six years starting 2022.
Selected by the Government of India to drive the
second phase of the pathbreaking Passport Seva
Program. TCS will refresh existing facilities and
systems, develop new solutions to enable issuance
of e-passports and further enhance the citizen
experience. In the first phase launched in 2008, TCS
transformed the citizen experience at its nationwide
network of Passport Seva centers. Setting global
benchmarks in service quality, timeliness, transparency,

Recognized as a Superbrand in Singapore for the first
time, following recognition as a UK Superbrand for
the seventh consecutive year. The latter acknowledges
the company’s exceptional business growth, its
position as the top strategic IT player by revenue
in the UK, its number one ranking in customer
satisfaction, and its community initiatives.
Launched TCS’ Cyber Defense Suite—a
comprehensive set of modular, quickly deployable
cyber security services offered on a platform.
Augmenting the 10,000 cyber-specialists and
global network of Threat Management Centers that
TCS uses to secure its customers globally, the new
platform provides 360-degree visibility and predictive
intelligence to proactively defend and respond against
evolving threats.
The Year Gone By | 15

Q3

Celebrated a milestone with the number
of women in the workforce crossing
200,000 in December. Women-centric
leadership development initiatives have
resulted in the number of senior women
executives growing 84% over the last 5 years. The
company is part of the 2022 Bloomberg GenderEquality Index that tracks the performance of public
companies committed to transparency in gender-data
reporting.
Launched the TCS Assessment and Migration
Factory, a set of tools, accelerators, and services that
enable customers to shift their mainframe workloads
to the new AWS Mainframe Modernization
platform.

Became title partner to Jaguar Racing ahead
of the 2021/22 ABB FIA Formula E World
Championship. The team will now be known as
Jaguar TCS Racing. TCS will leverage its leadership
in technology transformation and partnerships
across the EV value chain to help Jaguar TCS
Racing become a catalyst for electrification,
promote low carbon emissions and sustainable
mobility.

Q2

Gained further market share in the UK,
and was ranked #1 by revenue in the
UK Software and IT Services Rankings
2021 by TechMarketView. The company
performed very well in the rankings
by sub-category as well, topping the Applications
Operations category, and ranking #3 in Consulting
and Solutions.

The Year Gone By | 16

Launched `Rebegin’, an initiative to enable
experienced women professionals who had taken
a work sabbatical due to family commitments, to
reclaim their careers and pursue their professional
aspirations in TCS. Over 14,000 job applications
were received under this initiative in FY 2022.
Launched TCS Google Garages at the TCS
Pace Port™ co-innovation centers in Amsterdam,
New York and Tokyo. These Garages provide
an immersive experience for companies to
evaluate TCS’ cloud solutions, develop and
prototype applications, apply analytics and artificial
intelligence (AI) capabilities using design thinking
and agile development to rapidly address business
opportunities and create value using Google
Cloud.
Partnered with the Australian Energy Market
Operator (AEMO) to implement the switch from
30-minute settlement to 5-minute settlement
in the national wholesale electricity spot market.
The shorter settlement window, enabled by a
cloud-based solution designed by TCS, is expected
to provide a better price signal for investment in
faster response technologies, such as batteries
and gas peaking generators.

Selected by the Multi-Commodity Exchange
India Ltd (MCX) as its technology partner
for Project Udaan. TCS will help MCX build a
new technology core, transforming its trading as
well as post-trade functions, to support its future
growth and further strengthen its leadership
position in the commodity derivatives market in
India.

Entered into a new partnership with Dutch
Open, one of Europe’s most innovative and
sustainable golf events. TCS will leverage its
expertise in digital technologies to help the
Dutch Open enrich participant and spectator
experience.

The investments in innovation and strong
market traction demonstrated by TCS’ cloud
units won several partner awards. TCS was
named to the Microsoft Business Applications
2021/2022 Inner Circle, and also awarded two
2021 Microsoft Partner of the Year Awards.
Similarly, TCS was named the 2020 Google
Cloud Breakthrough Partner of the Year
for outstanding results across sales, delivery,
competency development, expertise, specialization
badges, and growth of its customer base.

Continued to be the preferred transformation
partner to market infrastructure institutions, with
TCS BaNCS for Market Infrastructure and
Custody solutions powering the operations of
over 50 market-critical institutions across 66
countries.
The Year Gone By | 17

Q1

Inaugurated TCS Pace Port™ Amsterdam, a
co-innovation and advanced research center where
TCS teams will co-innovate with European customers,
drawing on an ecosystem of partners from academia,
government institutions, start-ups and technology
providers. The center will enable ideation and rapid prototyping
with a clear focus on finding and creating sustainable solutions.

The ninth season of TCS CodeVita attracted
136,054 participants from 34 countries,
winning it a Guinness World Records™ title
at the world’s largest computer programming
competition. College students from around
the world competed in solving complex
programming challenges over an intense
six-hour period, to win cash prizes and be
ranked among the top student programmers
globally.

Samir Seksaria took over as the company’s
Chief Financial Officer on May 1, 2021,
following the retirement of V Ramakrishnan
(`Ramki’). He started his career in TCS in
1999. He moved to Corporate Finance
in 2004 and played a critical role in the
company’s IPO. Prior to becoming CFO, he
headed the financial analytics, planning and
business finance functions. On November 1,
2021, Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde stepped
in as the Company Secretary in place of
Rajendra Moholkar who retired.

Launched a pan-India vaccination drive against
Covid-19, covering TCSers and their families,
across all TCS locations as well as smaller cities
that some employees were remote-working
from. The TCS Vaccination League benefited 1.2
million individuals and resulted in over 87% of
employees in India getting fully vaccinated and
95% receiving at least one dose.
The Year Gone By | 18

TCS’ Integrated
Business Model
for Value Creation using
the Five Capitals

Intellectual Capital

Domain knowledge, contextual knowledge,
patents, products and platforms

Partners
Technology and COIN

Human Capital

Skills, competencies, capabilities, knowledge
and motivation of employees

FINANCIAL CAPITAL
Sources of funds from
business operations,
financing or investing
activities

Natural Capital

Renewable & Non-renewable Resources

Contextual
Knowledge

OPERATIONS
Research & Innovation
Products & Platforms
Services & Solutions
Talent Acquisition
Talent Engagement
Talent Development

CUSTOMER
ENGAGEMENT

VALUE

Customer
Goodwill/Brand
Value/CSR/Taxes
Social & Relationship Capital

Investors, Customers, Employees,Communities Goodwill

Stakeholder
Payout, Reserves

TCS' Integrated Business Model | 19

Financial Capital
The 25-fold revenue growth over the last 20 years is a testimony to the
strength of our business model and our ability to reinvent ourselves in an
ever-evolving technology landscape to stay relevant to our customers while
remaining focused on creating value for all our stakeholders.

Outcomes
• Best in class profitability and strong balance sheet provide greater ability to invest in
newer capabilities and to weather economic downturns, macro uncertainties
• Consistently high shareholder returns enhances social and relationship capital

₹ 191,754 cr
+ 16.8%

Economic value generated

GRI 201-1
* Excluding provision towards legal claim in prior year
1

Economic Value Distributed

Economic Value Generated and Distributed1

₹ 107,554 cr

₹ 35,747 cr

₹ 13,238 cr

Employee cost

Other cost of operations

Tax expense

+ 17.1%

₹ 855 cr
+ 16.0%

Community Investments

+19.6%

+ 15.5%*

₹ 2,242 cr

₹ 38,010 cr

R&D and innovation
including innovation
center development

Shareholder payout
including unpaid final
dividend, Buyback and
taxes

+ 17.0%

+ 12.2%

Financial Capital | 20

Financial Highlights
Revenue Trend

Operating Profit Trend

CAGR 10.2%

(` crore)

67.10

83.05

86.19

89.27

103.62

FY 2022

48,453

191,754

FY 2021

42,481

164,177

FY 2020

FY 2018

FY 2019

FY 2020

FY 2021*

FY 2022

FY 2018

FY 2019

FY 2020

FY 2021*

FY 2022

(` crore)

OCF and Cash Conversion

97.1%

Operating Profit

Operating Margin

106.0%
101.5%
92.6%

7.5%

90.9%

^ Earnings per share is adjusted for bonus issue

1.8%

104.2%

100.1%

(Amount in `)

Shareholder Payouts

Cash Usage#

116.2%

CAGR 9.2%

38,580

156,949

FY 2019

24.6%

25.3%

37,450

146,463

FY 2018

Earnings per share ^
25.9%

30,502

123,104

24.8%

25.6%

Shareholder Distribution

99.2%

98.6%

0.2%

(` crore)

Operating Cash Flow (OCF)

OCF to Net Profit Ratio

# Cash usage for the period FY 2018 to FY 2022

22,192

15,818#

19,726

14,147

FY 2022

17,840

39,949

FY 2021*

14,055

38,802

FY 2020

90.5%

16,000

32,369

FY 2019

Invested Funds

13,148

28,593

FY 2018

11,377

25,067

Acquisitions, etc.

16,000

Capex

FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021* FY 2022
Dividend
Special
Buyback
Shareholder Payout ratio
Dividend
including
(Including special dividend
tax
and buyback, including tax)
(` crore)
# includes proposed final dividend

* Excluding provision towards legal claim
Financial Capital | 21

Human Capital

TCS Employees by Region, Age and Gender2
India

>50
yrs

F 0.1%
F

6%

30-40 40-50
yrs
yrs

M

1%

M

23%
10%

F
M

34%
25%

F

43.2%
41.5%

31.1%
28.9%

11.7%

Junior

Middle
FY 2018

1

GRI 401-1, 2 GRI 405-1

13.3%

Senior

F

15%
5%

M

21%
6%

F
M

20%

F
M

10%
16%

F

7%

F

11%

M

30-40 40-50
yrs
yrs

17%
11%

F
M

15%

F
M

10%
11%

F

10%

Emerging Markets
M

5%

F

2%

M
F

11%
5%

M
F
M
F

Europe
>50
yrs

15%

< 30
yrs

30-40 40-50
yrs
yrs
< 30
yrs

M

26%
12%
25%
14 %

M
F

19%
6%

M
F

17%
6%

M

19%
11%
13%

F
M

9%

F

APAC
>50
yrs

210,000+ Women
35.6% of workforce
84%+ Increase in senior women
executives over last 5 years
678 Women patent holders

Rising up the ranks
% Women improved at mid- and senior
levels over last 5 years

>50
yrs

3 Generations
88% Millennials

14,000
job applications
received

30-40 40-50
yrs
yrs

Rebegin
New program for women
seeking to rejoin work
after a career break

< 30
yrs

153
Nationalities

>50
yrs

United Kingdom

Talent Diversity and Inclusion2

M

Talent Retention
Best in the Industry

30-40 40-50
yrs
yrs

Net Addition
Highest ever

North America
1%

< 30
yrs

30-40 40-50
yrs
yrs

LTM
attrition in IT
services

Employees

M

< 30
yrs

Workforce
Globally distributed highly localized

17.4%

103,546

< 30
yrs

592,195
Employees

>50
yrs

Best in Class Talent Management1

M

6%

F

3%

M
F

14%
6%

M

24%

F
M

19%
14%

F

14 %

FY 2022
Human Capital | 22

Talent Development
TCS takes a purpose-centric approach to
learning and development that leverages
horizontal collaboration and the abundance
of internal talent in an ecosystem where
the training is just-in-time, just-for-me
and just-enough.

3.5
million

171,000

Digital competencies
acquired

Employees deep
skilled

Average Learning Hours per employee3 121 hrs
Senior

77

Middle

53
50

Male
Female

154
144

Junior

TCS Elevate
Linking learning to career growth

13,000

Employees identified as high
talent, with higher pay

3

91

GRI 404-1

Contextual Masters
Talent with potential to be tomorrow’s G&T leaders

50,000 CMs
+169% YoY
24% Women

Fresher Training
Xplore foundational virtual training with certifications,
daily webinars, weekly assessments and gamified contests

100,000+

trainees onboarded.
The highest ever

Human Capital | 23

Four dimensions of TCS’ Research and Innovation:

Intellectual
Capital
The company channelizes its research and innovation efforts
and outcomes towards building better futures through two
external facing brands:
• TCS Research produces foundational inventions that
impact industry and society.
• TCS PaceTM brings the best of TCS’ intellectual content,
innovation assets, capabilities, and practices to clients.

Highlights:
6,500+

2,287/6,583

researchers,
inventors, and
innovators

patents granted/
filed (cumulative)

240+
publications

5 Pace Ports
58
academic
partners

New York |
Amsterdam |
Tokyo | Pittsburgh |
Toronto

40+
Research and
Innovation
Centers
2,600+
start-up
partners

Innovation in the
Core Business:

Technology-led
innovation

Continuous creation of innovative new
solutions in the core business, delivering
incremental benefits using existing
capabilities in areas like cloud, code, data
and cybersecurity. Also includes newer
functionality in existing products and
platforms, or their replatforming onto
hyperscaler clouds. Eg: TCS MastercraftTM,
JileTM 4.0, TCS BaNCS Marketplace

Use of emerging technologies to enable
seamless human-machine collaboration and
transform the client’s way of doing business.
Eg: Algo Retail suite (TCS Optumera™, TCS
OptuniqueTM and TCS Omnistore™), TCS
ADD™, TCS TwinXTM, Sustainability solutions
(TCS Clever EnergyTM and TCS EnvirozoneTM),
QuartzTM

Business and
Ecosystem-led Innovation

Blue Sky
Innovation

Leverage of domain and contextual
knowledge, research outcomes and TCS
COIN to connect ecosystems and transform
industries. Eg: TCS Cognitive Plant Operations
Adviser (CPOA), TCS’ DeXAM, TCS AvianaTM,
TCS HOBS ™

Long-term investments in futuristic areas of
research to address customers’ needs that are
not yet realized. Includes: cognitive robotics;
quantum computing; next-generation
communications technologies. Other
research topics include sensing, digital twins
for social systems, efficient and robust AI &
deep learning, metagenomics, immersive
technologies, sustainability, generative design
for materials, manufacturing & life sciences,
and personalized nutrition and medicine.
Intellectual Capital | 24

TCS Suite of Products and Platforms

B NCS
• 22 new wins (50% of the new wins were on
TCS BaNCS Cloud) and 16 go lives in FY 2022
• Highlights:
• Services more than 35% of the world’s
banking population
• More than 100 million transactions run on
TCS BaNCS Cloud daily
• Records 10 million new trades per day
(peak) across 100+ countries
• Offers ready market connectivity to 45+
local markets for settlements
• Services over 20 million life, annuity and
pension policies and 135 million property
and casualty policies across the globe

• World leading cognitive automation software
for IT and business operations
• 100+ deals closed in FY 2022, 27 new
customers went live
• 11,500+ ignio trained professionals, 4,100+
ignio certified professionals till date
• 35 patents granted to date

Digital Advantage for Life Sciences

• Onboarded 700+ corporates to enable job
outcome linkage through TCS NQT
• Conducted ~45 million in-center and ~2.9
million remote assessments at national and
regional scale
• 110+ new wins in India and 15 in international
market
• Launched 250+ learning offerings (NQT
variants, Certifications/Courses, Games), in
latest tech. domains such as AI/ML, Big data,
Data Mining/Analytics; banking & finance
domain and in manufacturing sector in
partnership with NTTF, ICA, and Tata Strive
• Highlights:
• 268 million candidates assessed till date;
largest in-center assessment with 18.9
million candidates
• 36.5 million remote assessments done
• 10.4 million learners on the platform,
79,801 courses available, 909 clients
• ERP on cloud: 896 clients in manufacturing
• 136 patents filed till date; 37 granted

• Comprehensive suite for digital transformation
of drug development and clinical trials
• Clients include 10 of the Top 12 global pharma
companies; total number of clients: 19
• 700+ clinical trials supported by TCS ADD
Platforms till date, Implemented across
50,000+ sites across the world.
• 3 new wins and 1 go live in FY 2022

• Plug and play SaaS based business platform to
digitally transform business, network and
revenue management domains of
subscription-based businesses
• 2 deal wins in FY 2022
TM

• AI and ML powered merchandise optimization
platform that enables retailers to unlock
exponential value by optimizing their space, mix
and price in an integrated manner.
• 1 new win and 3 go-lives in FY 2022

Intellectual Capital | 25

MasterCraft
• AI powered system of actionable intelligence –
powered by an enterprise digital twin (customer,
product, process) to help business leaders
simulate and optimise enterprise decisions,
predict and proactively manage outcomes
• 20 new wins and 9 go-lives in FY 2022
• TwinX Business Highlights:
• Risk Free Experimentation Users: 5000+
• Number of End- Customer Orders Processed:
33 Mn
• Number of Digital Twin transactions: 10 Mn
• New Product Ideations: 20
• Safety Twin ensures zero harm workplace/ saves
precious human lives in hazardous anufacturing
facilities
• Launched in Google Cloud in Oct 21

• AI powered unified commerce platform that
can flexibly orchestrate unified omnichannel
customer journeys and help businesses roll out
new services and apps quickly without having
to worry about channel constraints. It can serve
diverse lines of business – general merchandise,
discount, specialty, fashion, restaurant, post
office, telecom, and travel and hospitality
industries.
• 3 new wins and 5 go-lives in FY 2022

• Digital platform to optimally automate and
manage IT processes
• FY 2022 Highlights: 46 billion records processed
for data privacy, 8.2+ billion Records processed
for data quality, 8.8+ million lines of code (mloc)
analyzed, thus helping clients get the right
insights from legacy code and automate
the business rules extraction with an overall
productivity improvement of 20% - 30%, 3.4+
mloc of high-quality Java and JavaScript codes
generated, resulting in 50% more productivity in
development
• 27 new wins in FY 2022

• Intelligent smart contract development toolkits,
Integration solutions and ‘Designed for DLT’
business solutions that provides foundational
technology, tools and business components for
creating distributed ledger solutions across
varied industries
• Built on the core principles of co-existence,
integration and interoperability. Quartz enables
existing systems to coexist and integrate with
blockchain platforms and other messaging
networks
• 7 new wins in FY 2022

• SaaS-based, scalable Agile DevOps
platform to accelerate software
development and delivery and integrate
DevOps tools
• 13,000+ active users till date

Intellectual Capital | 26

Social Good

TCS Research collaborated with Prayas Help
Group to develop a digital twin of Pune city to
predict the spread of the pandemic and help
devise local strategies to control it.

TCS’ inventors and innovators continued to
mentor young social entrepreneurs as part of
TCS Foundation’s Digital Impact Square (DISQ).
Over 30 start-ups are currently under various
phases of incubation and graduation under
DISQ. Prominent themes around which social
challenges are being addressed include AgriTech,
Assistive Tech, Citizen Services Tech, EduTech,
HealthTech and Sustainability Tech.

A number of assistive technologies have emerged
from TCS R&I, including Assisto (speech aid for
cerebral palsy); VHAB (Immersive Physio); Verbose
(Speech-to-text); School at Home assistance
for disabled; Emotrain (Training for Autistic) and
Home Bound (COVID related remote medical
assistance). These were especially useful during
the pandemic, where much of the training and
support for children with special needs had to be
virtual.

Intellectual Capital | 27

TCS’ business model and strategy have resulted in
deep and enduring customer relationships, a vibrant
and engaged workforce, a steady expansion of its
addressable market, a strong reputation as a responsible
corporate citizen and a proven track record in delivering
longer term stakeholder value. All of this has significantly
enhanced the company’s brand value, which is a
quantifiable measure of its social and relationship capital
with stakeholders.

Outcomes
• Expanding participation across broad range of
stakeholders across the enterprise including
business heads, CMOs, CROs, COOs, CFOs and
even CEOs
• Continual expansion of customer relationships in
terms of services consumed
• Highly satisfied customers

2020/21 EUROPE

2019/20 EUROPE

Whitelane Research

Whitelane Research

Whitelane Research

Large Client Metrics

Customers

Customer-centricity is at the core of TCS’ business
model, organization structure and investment decisions.
The philosophy has been to delight them by delivering
superior outcomes, and build strong, enduring
relationships. Additionally, the company seeks to expand
and deepen customer engagements by continually
looking for new areas in the customer’s business where
the company can add value, proactively investing in
building newer capabilities, and launching new services
and solutions.

2014 EUROPE

Rev per US$ 1 Million+ Client ($ Mn)
268

207

120

97
38
FY 2018

US$ 20Mn+

58
FY 2022

US$ 50Mn+

19.8

21.7

FY 2018

FY 2022

103.62

Relationship and
Social Capital

US$ 100Mn+

Growth 9.7%

Relationship and Social Capital | 28

Investors

TCS is seen as a benchmark in its outreach to investors, its
transparency and disclosures, publicly communicating its longerterm strategy, qualitative aspects of the demand outlook, risks and
opportunities, reducing information asymmetries and enabling fair
valuation of the stock. For the last many years, it has been awarded
the Best Investor Relations award by publications like Institutional
Investor, FinanceAsia and AsiaMoney based on polls of investors and
analysts in the region.

Investor and Analyst Interactions in FY2022
Particulars

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

FY 2022

Total
interactions

152

275

243

186

856

Total number of
hours spent

45

53

42

34

174

Analyst Relations

Branding

TCS’ reputation for customer-centricity, domain depth and execution
excellence have made it the preferred growth and transformation partner to
leading corporations across the world. It is also recognized as a top employer
brand across the major markets it operates in, including North America,
Europe, UK, India, Latin America and Australia, among others.
Its tagline `Building on Belief’ along with marketing campaigns, sponsored
events and advertising, along with the goodwill built up with investors, with
local communities, academia and other stakeholders have cumulatively
helped put TCS among the Top 2 brands in IT services by brand value
according to Brand Finance.

TCS Brand Valuation
$9.4 $9.1 $10.4
$8.2 $8.7
$2.3

$12.8 $13.5

$14.9

$16.8

$5.2

Assessments in which TCS was ranked a Leader by Research Firms

FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
86

92

($ billion)
FY 2021

FY 2022

Source: Brand Finance

Relationship and Social Capital | 29

Awards & Recognition

TCS rose to be the second most
Valuable IT Services Brand
Brand Finance Awards

Jaguar TCS Racing
2022

TCS Toronto
Waterfront Marathon
2022

TCS Europe Summit
2022

Relationship and Social Capital | 30

Natural Capital

Achievements

10.2

37.2%

% Total office space
(for India) as per IGBC
standards

Energy efficiency initiatives
at TCS data centers in
Mumbai and Chennai

Rooftop solar
capacity across
campuses

Renewable electricity as % of
total electricity consumed

Reduced Energy
Consumption and…

49%

FY 2022

RESPONSIBLE
CONSUMPTION
AND
PRODUCTION

13

CLIMATE
ACTION

46%

358

FY 2016

Total Energy
Consumed in GWh

12

66%

668

INDUSTRY
INNOVATION AND
INFRASTRUCTURE

… reduced TCS’ Carbon footprint.

158

9

SUSTAINABLE
CITIES AND
COMMUNITIES

300

11

…Increased Use of
Renewable Energy..

6x

592

AFFORDABLE
AND CLEAN
ENERGY

MW

Outcomes

• Prioritized energy optimization and carbon footprint mitigation.
• 89% of emissions across Scope 1 and Scope 2 due to purchased
electricity for office blocks.
• Use of Clever Energy to optimize energy consumption and
greater use of renewable energy.
• 5 large campuses in India certified with ISO 50001: 2018
standards for Energy Management Systems (EnMS).

7

PUE

471

Target: 70% reduction of Scope 1 + 2 emissions by 2025 (vs base
year 2016) and Net Zero by 2030

1.65

112

Energy Management and GHG Emissions Reduction

64.4%

18.6

TCS is in a unique position to combine its heritage of purpose
along with digital leadership and innovation to drive its own
journey to more sustainable outcomes, as well as partner with
customers, civil society and governments to lead and shape
solutions towards the achievement of the UN Sustainable
Development Goals.

FY 2016

FY 2022

FY 2016

FY 2022

FY 2016

FY 2022

Renewable Energy
Consumed in GWh

Total Scope 1 + 2
Value chain emissions
emissions in ‘000 tCO2e
in '000 tCO2e

Scope 3 emissions
Employee commutes and business travel cause ~50% of these value chain emissions. Remote
working and reduced business travel resulted in a sharp reduction.

Natural Capital | 31

Water Conservation

Waste Reduction & Reuse

Target: 3% YoY reduction in freshwater consumption across owned campuses

Target: Reduction in waste
generation, maximizing
recycling/ reuse to divert waste
sent to landfill

6

CLEAN WATER
AND
SANITATION

12

RESPONSIBLE
CONSUMPTION
AND
PRODUCTION

13

CLIMATE
ACTION

Initiatives include conservation, sewage treatment & reuse, rainwater harvesting (RWH)
and employee awareness. All new campuses have been designed for 50% higher water
efficiency, 100% treatment and recycling of sewage, and rainwater harvesting.

1.44 Bn

5.2%

84%

Liters of fresh
water consumed
in FY 2022

Water from RWH; 86.4 %
from third party sources;
8.4% from ground water

Recycling of sewage
generated (for India)

100%

12
12

RESPONSIBLE
RESPONSIBLE
CONSUMPTION
CONSUMPTION
AND
AND PRODUCTION
PRODUCTION

13

CLIMATE
ACTION

Recycling of regulated wastes, e-waste, printer
cartridges, paper, packaging and plastics.

Biodiversity conservation and
enhancement initiatives within
TCS campuses.

14

LIFE BELOW
WATER

15

LIFE ON
LAND

Natural Capital | 32

Partnering with Takeda to Innovate at Scale
Takeda, the global biopharmaceutical giant, is on
a digital transformation journey to innovatively
use technology to create better experiences and
outcomes for patients, providers and payers. This
means innovating continuously on not only in core
drug development but also in behind-the-scenes
areas such as manufacturing, procurement, shipping
and distribution, to make sure that Takeda’s life-saving
therapies reach more patients, faster.
Takeda partnered with TCS to develop an agile model
that would enable the creation of new digital assets
in a rapid and repeatable fashion. Leveraging TCS
Pace™, a philosophy and framework for innovation

We have developed a deep partnership with
TCS to set up and run an innovation factory
that’s developing digital products and services
across Takeda. This model centralizes domain
expertise, design thinking and lean agile product
development as part of an end-to-end capability
that is driving digital transformation across our
global supply chain. TCS is helping us embrace
innovation at scale, and use the power of emerging
technologies to transform our business.
Hansjoerg Magalhaes
Global Product Manager
ERP Commercial and Supply, Takeda

at scale, TCS helped Takeda envisage an innovation
factory delivery model called Enhanced Digital Global
Experience (EDGE).
Departing from the traditional business analysis and
design-build-test linear project life cycle, EDGE
embraces co-creation, cross-functional collaboration,
and continuous business-driven iterative innovation.
Leveraging cloud technologies, design thinking, and
location independent agile software development
to provide an end-to-end product development
capability, TCS is helping Takeda transform the way
it launches digital products and services across its
operations. A few examples:

• TCS helped build a drug substance optimization
solution that uses machine learning to help supply
planners optimally allocate the raw materials for drug
production, leading to a reduction in raw material
scrappage and an additional amount of doses
produced annually.
• A mobile track-and-trace app was built to provide
real-time visibility of product consignments for a
newly launched product with a very short shelf life.
• A product was developed to help decision makers
evaluate various transportation and shipping scenarios
to optimize on time and cost of shipments while
reducing carbon impact.
• A controlled substance control tower was built to
provide a single view of permits and visualization
of risks associated with the global movement of
controlled substance drug products.
By partnering with TCS to scale up its innovation efforts
using BizDevOps, Takeda has accomplished much in
the short time since EDGE was implemented. The new
innovation factory has released 12 products across over
40 design sprints at the peak of the pandemic, evaluated
over 40 potential use cases and reduced the time-tomarket for new digital products and services by 50%
- a benchmark for organizations looking to embrace
innovation at scale.

Customer Stories | 33

Co-Innovating with Bovemij to Fulfill its Mission and Drive Growth
For the last 60 years, Bovemij has been providing a
variety of insurance services such as auto, fire, legal
assistance, financing and other business services to
mobility companies – vehicle dealerships, fleet owners,
and service centers – in the Netherlands to help them
compete successfully in the marketplace.
To keep fulfilling its mission of helping this ecosystem
stay competitive in a digital world, Bovemij partnered
with TCS to realize its digital strategy to expand the
ecosystem and bring in a richer set of offerings that
ecosystem participants could use to connect better
with digital native consumers.
TCS leveraged its Pace Innovation Architecture and
Pace sprints to jointly ideate and create unique, viable
and feasible business propositions for the ecosystem

Bovemij is committed to help the mobility ecosystem thrive in the
digital world. We selected TCS as our partner to help us realize our
digital strategy because of the co-innovation architecture and agile
practices that they already had in place. Using that, we could jointly
visualize the platform and the various business propositions, and
rapidly build out each such proposition. Their expertise, creative
ideas and agile ways helped us get our platform up and running
much faster than we had anticipated.
Marcel van de Lustgraaf
Member of the Executive Board
Bovemij

which would be offered
through a new Digital
Mobility Platform that would
connect Bovemij’s mobility
partners with consumers in
a B2B2C model across the
Netherlands.

TCS also set up a digital innovation factory, for
repeatable agile innovation at scale, to take each of
the business propositions and deliver them to market
at speed. A minimum viable product was put together
in six weeks, with relevant user stories to demonstrate
outcomes and gain acceptance of internal and external
stakeholders.
In addition to providing access to its full set of
offerings to its regular B2B partners, Bovemij’s new
cloud-based Digital Mobility Platform is also enabling
new B2C propositions – offered on a subscription
basis – for its partners, to sell better to consumers
while embedding its insurance and other offerings into
those transactions. Other propositions seek to benefit
the ecosystem as a whole. For example, consumers
can sell their used cars on its portal, which mobility
companies can bid for. Data from these consumer
interactions are being harvested for further actionable
insights for use by Bovemij’s various business lines and
other ecosystem partners.
Co-innovating with TCS is enabling Bovemij leverage
the power of the ecosystem to offer innovative
propositions to its partners and their consumers, carve
out a new brand identity for itself in the market, create
new revenue streams and drive growth.

Customer Stories | 34

INNOVATING FOR GREATER
FUTURES:
A PANEL DISCUSSION
Why are enterprises accelerating their
investments in innovation? How does
TCS help enterprises innovate for greater
futures?
Ananth: The initial trigger for this acceleration was
the need to build resilience into the technology and

business context of every enterprise. The next trigger
was the adaptation required to compete in many
contexts created by digital business models. Finally, as
enterprises are moving into a post-pandemic world
of new risks, challenges and opportunities, a more
strategic, purpose driven strategy is driving innovation.
These factors are driving enterprises to develop a wide
and deep innovation capability, which can scale. This is
not easy. Most have found it difficult to measure up on
both scale and speed. Smaller competitors may offer
a non-stop stream of innovations. Large enterprises

often struggle to innovate at that pace on their own,
for lack of processes, toolsets and also sufficient
dedicated bandwidth
Partnering with TCS can help them overcome all
these issues. We help them create a strategic agenda
using our tools and methods, especially our ‘Clay Map’,
named so in honor of the late Clayton Christensen
who greatly influenced our thinking on innovation.
We also offer the TCS’ Agile Innovation Cloud, a
framework for operationalizing innovation at scale,
which ensures that innovation does not happen by
chance but by design. It brings together the best
of TCS’ innovation, global capabilities, ecosystem
partnerships, and talent to help our clients define their
strategy, create an innovation portfolio and scale the
execution of innovation.
Our clients tap into our contextual knowledge of their
business and technology landscapes, when they jointly
ideate with our teams. They work with our start-up
and academic partners at our Pace Ports™ to harvest
many more innovation candidates than on their own.
We then jointly design and build 'minimum viable
products’ of the most promising ideas in Agile ‘Pace
Sprints’. At a larger level, we help clients create a

Featuring
K Ananth Krishnan N G Subramaniam
Chief Technology
Chief Operating
Oﬃcer
Oﬃcer

Krishnan Ramanujam
Global Head – Enterprise
Growth Group
Panel Discussion | 35

repeatable process which can significantly scale up and
speed up their innovation.
A good example of this is the innovation factory
we have set up for Takeda1 . Using cloud, design
thinking, and location independent agile methods,
our combined teams are taking up innovative ideas
across procurement, logistics and finance, and building
innovative digital assets at twice the velocity.
Krishnan: The three broad themes around which we
saw our clients innovate the most were growth and
transformation (G&T), resilience, and sustainability. We
have been making significant investments in creating
capabilities strategically relevant to each of these
themes, some of which we have described in our prior
years’ annual reports as well.
G&T is most often about expanding organically or
inorganically into adjacencies, be it of products and
services, or customers and markets, and occasionally,
moonshots. Good examples are our transformational
engagements with clients like Swiss Re, Bovemij and
RS Components described in our FY 2022 annual
report2, or the work we have done for Bayer, Damen
Shipyards and Toyo Tires described in prior years’
annual reports.
We have been leveraging our deep contextual
knowledge of our clients’ businesses, extensive
industry knowledge and experience, our rich portfolio
of intellectual property, digital engineering expertise

1

Page 33, 2 Pages 41, 34 and 45 respectively

and our differentiated inside-out approach to
transformation to help bring their G&T visions to
fruition.
Underpinning our work in G&T are our key innovation
pillars – our Pace Ports™, the TCS Co-innovation
Network (TCS COIN™), research collaborations with
leading academic institutions, `Future of Business’
frameworks, W12 design studios, and our products
and platforms like TCS BaNCS™, Optumera™,
Optunique™, ADD, ignio™, Bringing Life to Things™,
Cloudonomy™, and Cognix™ among others.
The second big theme is resilience, which is the
ability to weather foreseen as well as unforeseen
emergencies. In these last two years, many of our
largest deal wins were around transforming clients’ IT
and business operating models, and their supply chain
management processes, using ignio or TCS Cognix to
embed intelligent automation for greater resilience
and agility. Much of the rush to embrace the cloud in
the early months of the pandemic was also driven by
this need.
Lastly, we saw clients focus heavily on sustainability
in FY 2022, particularly around carbon footprint
reduction. Our investments in innovative digital
solutions such as Envirozone™, Clever EnergyTM and
IP2™, and our expertise in cloud, data and analytics,
AI and ML are helping us win more and more of such
engagements, helping us amplify our contribution
to the worldwide collective effort to mitigate climate
change and build greater futures.

What we have observed is that as
soon as enterprises simplify their IT
landscapes and build a new, cloud-based
digital core, supporting micro services in
a cloud native environment, their ability
to realize innovative ideas and deploy
them in production shoots up.

Aren’t large enterprises also constrained by
their legacy technology stacks? How do they
overcome that challenge?
NGS: I call them heritage. They have been around
and doing a good job of running their businesses in a
way that encapsulates their organization’s processes,
checks and balances. Most organizations have worked
to build APIs or middleware that enable their digital
strategies, though they are suboptimal.
What we have observed is that as soon as enterprises
simplify their IT landscapes and build a new, cloudbased digital core, supporting micro services in a cloud
native environment, their ability to realize innovative
ideas and deploy them in production shoots up. They
are able to anchor or participate in ecosystems at will,
which drives growth and innovation.
Panel Discussion | 36

You may recall the scalable, customer-centric digital
operating model we built for the Phoenix Group, using
TCS BaNCS3 . Our platform is extensible, supporting the
required APIs and microservices for them to leverage
fintechs and our TCS COIN partners to enable the
differentiation in the front.
Krishnan: We see this same dynamic with the broader
set of clients who undertake Horizon One cloud
transformations. Besides enhanced ability to integrate
innovative new solutions into the core, their appetite for
innovation itself goes up. The richness of the technology
capabilities built into today’s hyperscaler clouds triggers
more innovative thinking and the desire to experiment
with those powerful technologies to reimagine different
aspects of the business.
Another challenge that large enterprises face is the need
to invest for the longer-term growth of their businesses,
without disrupting near-term financials. TCS helps them
square this circle by providing a line of sight for funding
the innovation pipeline or the transformation by helping
optimize operations.
We work closely with the client to reimagine parts of
their IT and business operations, or perhaps their IT
infrastructure, using our Machine First™ approach. The
resultant operating models are leaner, more agile and
more responsive. This frees up inhouse talent to take
up the more exciting innovation and transformation
initiatives. One large US client of ours for whom we are
building a new, cloud-native digital platform to support
their business forays into adjacencies, calls it their `save
to invest’ strategy.
3

Integrated AR FY 2021, Page 22

How do you see clients’ transition from
Horizon One to Horizon Two spending affect
your growth? Will there be a slump and
subsequent recovery?
Krishnan: The term multi-horizon may suggest clearly
delineated, sequential phases but in reality, clients don’t
wait to complete Horizon One, that is, migration of all
their workloads to the cloud before commencing their
Horizon Two initiatives. These progress concurrently.
Even as existing workloads are migrated to the cloud,
newer cloud-native systems are built to enhance
customer experience or to drive product or business
model innovation. That is how we have been able to give
examples of G&T engagements being executed as part
of Horizon Two investments in our quarterly earnings
calls, even though we are still in the middle of the
Horizon One opportunity.
We expect the transition to be a seamless one. Horizon
One is a bounded opportunity and will plateau at some
point when most of the workloads are migrated. By
that time, the other two horizons, which are boundless
opportunities would have scaled up and will support
our future growth. All our investments into building
our G&T capabilities, our branding and the new
organization structure are geared to help us maximize
our participation at that point.

In the last couple of years, the industry has
seen deal sizes reducing. What is driving that?

Is that why smaller companies are growing
faster? Also, is that why you adopted a new
organization structure?
NGS: Our order book has had a good mix of small
and medium projects, as well as large outsourcing and
transformation deals in FY 2022. This mix is important
for our short and long term business growth. Projects
are increasingly executed using Agile methods. The
focus here is to deliver 'speed to value' by structuring the
program over multiple monthly sprints. Here clients are
more comfortable structuring the contracts with short
tenures. The rise in the number of short tenure deals is
linked to the growing share of such work in our order
book.
On the outsourcing front too, average deal tenures
have come down on the heritage stacks. That is because
enterprises are in the midst of a technology transition.
As clients migrate to the cloud, their legacy

We expect the transition to be a seamless
one. Horizon One is a bounded opportunity
and will plateau at some point when most
of the workloads are migrated. By that time,
the other two horizons, which are boundless
opportunities would have scaled up and will
support our future growth.

Panel Discussion | 37

infrastructure, application and data estates will
eventually be replaced, re-engineered, re-platformed
or retired. Given the desire to get this transformation
done rapidly, they are outsourcing the run and change
of the existing portfolio for relatively shorter tenures
and hence lower TCVs.
Krishnan: The impression about smaller companies
growing faster is more due to sampling bias, based on
a handful of highly visible outperformers. That is not
true if you look at the global cohort. Even though the
bottom quartile by revenue size had its best growth
in a decade in 2021, it still underperformed the top
quartile by a significant margin.
Overall, the current demand environment is a rising
tide that has lifted all boats. Horizon One is a very
democratic opportunity, largely technology-centric.
Having enough people with the requisite certifications
and skills is sufficient to participate in this opportunity.
The severe talent scarcity is also driving a broad

All deals are important to us. Billiondollar deals are especially important
because they boost medium-term
visibility and provide us opportunities
to bring the whole of TCS’ offerings to
play. We are very pleased at winning
two such deals during the year.

outsourcing demand. Also, smaller players are enjoying
strong demand from clients in the small and medium
enterprise category, with little competition from larger
providers.
We adopted the new organization for a very different
reason, so we reach our next revenue milestone,
fighting fit. The new structure is designed to ensure
that our clients receive curated experiences which
make them feel just as valued, no matter how large
we grow. It is also designed to help us replicate best
practices across our client base and expand the
number of clients who bank on us as their trusted
growth and transformation partner.

The large scale vendor consolidation
anticipated two years ago doesn’t seem to
have materialized. How come?
Krishnan: Vendor consolidation is typically done to
find an alternative strategic provider with a richer set
of capabilities and a superior execution track record.
However, the sharp recovery and subsequent growth
in demand, coinciding with the great resignation and
talent scarcity, have resulted in enterprises focusing
more on pursuing their immediate technology
priorities.
That said, we still won several large deals during the
year where we displaced incumbents. If you look at
the global market, the industry grew 6% whereas all
the top tier players grew double digits, indicating that
the longer-term consolidation trends are very much
intact.

The industry didn’t see too many billiondollar deals in FY 2022. How important are
they for longer-term growth?
NGS: All deals are important to us. Billion-dollar deals
are especially important because they boost mediumterm visibility and provide us opportunities to bring the
whole of TCS’ offerings to play. We are very pleased
at winning two such deals during the year. Having
said that, the perceived importance of such deals for
longer term growth need not be exaggerated versus
smaller deals of say, $100million+ TCV.
For sustained longer term growth, what matters is
that the base order book size, excluding the occasional
mega deal, keeps growing year after year, and that
the quality of revenue keeps improving with higher
value engagements. Our average order book size
which used to be in the $6-7 billion range in FY
2021 moved to the $7-8 billion range in FY 2022,
and ended with an all-time high order book of
$11.3 billion in Q4. We are very pleased with that
progression.

How will the tensions in Europe, rising
inflation and the looming threat of a
recession affect spending on innovation, on
technology and on your growth outlook?
Ananth: Let me address the innovation part. It is
a misconception that innovation is a nice-to-have
activity apt for only good times. In fact, it is essential at
all times, good or bad. In good times, enterprises
Panel Discussion | 38

Partnering with TCS to innovate
at scale will enable them to try out
more ideas, and experiment more
extensively with the same budget,
and improve the yield on their
innovation investment.

So even in an economic slowdown, innovation doesn’t
stop. They may reprioritize one program over another
based on shifting objectives, but the spending will
continue. Partnering with TCS to innovate at scale will
enable them to try out more ideas, and experiment
more extensively with the same budget, and improve
the yield on their innovation investment.

may fund more product innovation or customer
experience transformation, targeting business growth
or increased customer intimacy.

NGS: We have been through multiple disruptive
macroeconomic events in the last decade and a
half – the GFC, taper tantrums, Eurozone crisis,
Brexit, the pandemic and now the war and the
resulting humanitarian crisis. We always take a view
that business is about growing in a constrained
environment and over these events, we have survived,
continued to grow and have ensured that we stay
ahead of the technology curve. This speaks to the
resilience of our business model, and of the essential
nature of the services we offer to businesses across
the world.

In tough times, they find new ways of working to
boost their resilience and adaptability – for example,
re-designing the value chain at a strategic level.
The sheer volume of innovation we saw over the
last two years, even in the face of bleak business
outlook, is testament to that. We designed and rolled
out AI-powered digitized underwriting and claims
processing for insurers, omnichannel experiences with
in-aisle checkouts for retailers, or remote monitoring
and pre-emptive maintenance of equipment for
manufacturers and utilities. None of these are `nice to
have’ capabilities. These were necessary to simply stay
in business, to stay relevant in the face of changing
consumer behavior, and to cope with the operational
challenges posed by the pandemic.

So conventional wisdom on technology spending,
based on historic behaviors during prior slowdowns,
may not be as reliable. In the post-pandemic world,
we expect technology spending to hold up well even
in a downturn.
We can’t predict the future, but based simply on the
deal signing momentum, our pipeline, and our on the
ground observations of clients planning multi-horizon
investments for their growth and transformation,
we remain confident that we are on a good growth
trajectory for the next three to five years.

Today, technology is central to any enterprise.
Businesses are rooted in technology, to the
extent that every company is aspiring to become
a technology company. Insurers are launching
technology platforms for their ecosystem partners,
and generating new revenue streams from that. The
world’s largest banks are incubating fintechs within the
enterprise, and betting on those to drive their future
growth. Retailers are depending heavily on online
sales. These are all recent structural changes.

Panel Discussion | 39

Transforming Israel’s Banking Sector
The Government of Israel’s Ministry of Finance was
looking to encourage the entry of new digital-only
banks that would boost competition, spark greater
innovation and rejuvenate the banking sector. It
selected TCS to play a leading role in this initiative, for
its deep domain knowledge in the banking industry
and experience in working with the largest financial
institutions in the world.
TCS built the Banking Service Bureau (BSB), a shared,
end-to-end digital banking operations platform
powered by TCS BaNCS™, that start-up banks can
easily plug into, to launch their operations quickly
and securely. It connects to the entire banking and
securities ecosystem in Israel, including local and
international payment gateways, stock exchanges,

As the first digital start-up bank in
Israel, our motto is to provide differentiated
banking services and use technology to its fullest
potential to deliver an innovative alternate to traditional banks.
While we have started with Israel, we are keen to grow in other markets
too. As part of this journey, TCS' Banking Service Bureau powered by the TCS BaNCS
product suite has helped us gain an early lead by making available a full digital core for
banking, including the necessary infrastructure and operational processes. This has given us
the space to focus on our core offerings and launch banking services in rapid time.

various regulatory authorities and market data
providers.
The first bank to commence operations using BSB is
One Zero Digital Bank, Israel’s first completely digital
bank, and the first to receive a banking license in the
country in over 40 years. Currently running as a pilot,
the bank will be open for all customers in the coming
months.
Besides start-up banks, incumbent banks can also
take advantage of the BSB’s modular architecture and
consume only specific best-in-class capabilities to gain
competitive differentiation and drive growth.
One of the modules in the BSB is its Digital Bank
Guarantee platform, powered by TCS’ Quartz®
blockchain solution. It digitally transforms the endto-end lifecycle of guarantees, enables seamless data
sharing with various beneficiaries, faster execution,
reduced errors, and enhanced transparency, security
and data privacy. Bank Hapoalim, Israel’s largest bank,
with a 30% share of all bank guarantees in the country,
has signed up for this platform.

Gal Bar Dea
CEO, One Zero Bank
Customer Stories | 40

Enabling Swiss Re’s Risk Partnership Strategy for Future Growth
Swiss Re, one of the world’s leading providers
of reinsurance, insurance, and other forms
of insurance-based risk transfer, conducts its business
with a clear vision: to make the world more resilient.
The company supports its clients with its deep
knowledge of risk and its capital strength, and helps
the world rebuild, renew, and move forward.
A distinctive aspect of Swiss Re’s business strategy is
leveraging ecosystems across its different businesses
to go beyond conventional reinsurance into new
products, services, and even entirely new models for
risk business. It is creating new collaborative business
models where it partners with corporates to create
new solutions with embedded insurance, or with
other insurers, reinsurers and even governments to
leverage shared knowledge, expertise, and capabilities
– protecting more customers, in newer ways.
TCS is helping Swiss Re realise this ecosystem vision in
its credit and surety reinsurance business by building
a cloud-native, microservices-based end-to-end
underwriting platform, including the front-end digital
channels and a digital marketplace that offers instant
quotes.
The new platform will leverage cloud-native
capabilities to help Swiss Re transform its underwriting
processes, using larger and richer datasets, deep
analytics, and automation to significantly enhance

the underwriting quality, speed, and throughput. This
will enable Swiss Re to provide a superior customer
experience, offer a broader range of products, and
take on more business.
The platform is being architected so that it can be
opened up to other insurers or reinsurers, giving them
access to new attractive risk pools through Swiss Re’s
extensive network of banks and other lenders.

The partnership with TCS will equip Swiss Re with
a platform to power future growth by expanding its
underwriting capacity to take on new business, while
creating an additional revenue stream from the ceded
risk distributed to other reinsurers.

Our clients and partners are at the heart of
Swiss Re's strategy, and together we make the
world more resilient. We offer tech-enabled
risk knowledge and data-driven insight to
address inefficiencies in the market and
support data-driven business decisions.
TCS has been a collaborative technology
partner in our drive for digital transformation.
We are moving into a modern cloud-based
landscape which will realise our vision, power
our future growth, and solve business and
global challenges.
Florian Maurer
Global Head of Applications
Swiss Re
Customer Stories | 41

How did you cope with supplyside
challenges due to the Great Resignation
this year? Is the worst behind us?
Milind: Yes, it has been a challenging year for
employers all over the world. In our industry, it wasn’t
as much due to the Great Resignation, as a churn
within the industry. Peers who had not anticipated
the sharp demand recovery scrambled to fulfill it
by poaching at scale from other companies. That
triggered a cycle of hiring and counter-hiring of each
other’s employees, sending attrition rates shooting
across the industry.

More importantly, we addressed the structural
problem of industry-wide talent scarcity by training
and onboarding 118,000 fresh engineers in FY 2022.
This massive infusion of fresh talent by us, as well as by
others in the industry, should start easing the problem
in FY 2023. There are some early signs of this. Our
attrition is plateauing on a quarterly annualized basis.
LTM attrition will likely rise further in the first half of
FY 2023 and after that, it should start tapering.

Milind: There are two reasons. One, there was
significant offshore shift during the pandemic due to
greater acceptance of remote working, local talent
scarcity, and the flow of work to where the talent
resides. That was deflationary in nature. Second,
we have been hiring additional numbers ahead
of demand, in anticipation of continued growth
momentum and to have a ready bench to back-fill
attrition.

Over the last 3 years, your net addition
has significantly outstripped your revenue
growth. Where is the disconnect?

Our attrition went up as well. But our commitment
to people, investing in them and empowering them
to realize their potential, along with closer employee
engagement, have helped us remain a benchmark
in talent retention. We also expanded our hiring
program, flexing the strength of our employer brand
to attract experienced and fresh talent at scale. We
undertook several other tactical measures to cope
with the supply side challenges, including generous
promotions, retention bonuses and increased use of
sub-contractors.

Q&A with Finance and HR
Samir Seksaria,
Chief Financial
Officer

Milind Lakkad
Chief Human
Resources Officer

Dr Ritu Anand
Head – Leadership
& Diversity
Q&A | 42

Despite the strong growth during the year,
the operating margin stayed flat. How should
we look at margins for the next year?
Samir: During the year, our annual salary increase
and the tactical interventions that Milind referred to,
resulted in a 330 bps margin headwind. Operating
leverage, improved realizations and some currency
support helped us mitigate to the extent of 270 bps,
resulting in an industry-leading operating margin of
25.3%.
Looking ahead, I expect the supplyside headwinds
to persist for most of the year. Additionally, as things
normalize, travel and facilities expenses should also
inch up. That will be mitigated by the full year benefit
of large numbers of fresh engineers onboarded in
FY 2022, leverage from continued revenue growth,
improved realizations and hopefully, some currency
support. Overall, we want to keep our margins stable in
the medium term.

You used to guide to a 26-28% range? Is that
no longer viable?
Samir: We don’t provide revenue or margin
guidance. However, 26-28% remains our longer term
aspirational band for the operating margin. Setting
aside short term headwinds, we don’t see any change
to our longer term cost structures or our relative
competitiveness. Just five quarters ago, we were in
that band, so there is no reason why we can’t get
there again.

We have kept our margins in the same
tight band for over a decade now. During
this period, we have outgrown our largest
and far more acquisitive local and global
peers, and delivered better margins..
You have had industry-leading margins
for several years. Is that constraining your
growth versus peers?
Samir: We don’t think so. We truly believe that
it is possible to pursue profitable growth without
compromising on either. The data bears us out. We
have kept our margins in the same tight band for over a
decade now. During this period, we have outgrown our
largest and far more acquisitive local and global peers,
and delivered better margins..
The underlying premise of the question is that with
similar costs, higher margins must mean higher prices
versus competition, and therefore lower sales. The flaw
lies in that assumption on costs. While raw costs may be
similar, our cost of delivery is lower because of higher
level of industrialization in our delivery model, better
training and better employer practices, resulting in better
retention. So we are able to compete very effectively,
and are winning all time high order books without
compromising on profitability.
Let me also explain briefly how we manage margins
on the ground. We have devolved decision-making to
managers on the frontlines, closest to customers and
best positioned to assess the tradeoffs. We hold them

accountable for growth as well as profitability, while
giving them autonomy to shape the commercials of
individual engagements. This has given us a class of
empowered, entrepreneurial leaders who win deals
going head-to-head with our most aggressive peers
on prices, if need be, while making up for the impact
elsewhere, and delivering the committed margin at a
portfolio level.
Of course, we continue to invest heavily in building
capabilities to pursue the large organic growth
opportunity. We are also open to acquiring assets which
add to our capabilities or IP assets, but the decision is
based more on valuations and ease of integration.

Switching gears, only 13% of the senior
management are women. What are you doing
to increase diversity at senior levels?
Ritu: We recognize the need to have a more diverse
workforce, and have been running a structured program
to drive diversity and inclusion within the organization.
For us, diversity is not just gender diversity. We take
a broader and more inclusive view, including gender,
nationality, education, ethnicity, orientation, accessiblity
and so on. By that measure, diversity in senior
management is over 30%.
We currently have over 153 nationalities in our
workforce. TCS is one of the largest employers of
women in the world, with over 210,000 women in the
workforce. This diversity is an aggregate outcome of
deliberate efforts around hiring in every market, talent
Q&A | 43

development, promotion and retention, and policies
specifically designed to encourage talented individuals,
regardless of demographic profile, to plan longer term
careers in TCS.

would certainly give us an opportunity to trumpet
our leadership in gender diversity. But I see this as
unsustainable.

Women make up 13% of our senior management. But
that figure doesn’t tell the full story. Within that cohort,
women fulfill 30% of our business development and
delivery management roles. That is the pool from which
tomorrow’s business heads and top leaders will emerge,
so I find that extremely encouraging.
Also, that percentage translates into nearly 4,000
senior women executives, making ours one of the
largest such teams in the world. Our policy of grooming
and promoting leadership from within, personalized
assessments, leadership development programs,
promotions and the collective efforts of the entire
leadership team have helped us grow the number of
women in that cohort by 84% over the last five years.
With continued push and with new leadership positions
opening up faster, and in larger numbers because
of the high growth environment we are in, we are
confident that we will make more progress over the
next five years, than we did in the last five. But there
are no shortcuts to this.

Why not? You could just announce a target
to have 50% women in senior management
and hire accordingly?
Ritu: Yes, we could. Hiring only women senior
managers from outside for all new leadership roles

Women’s overall participation in the labor force here
is under 20%, perhaps 15% if you take the urban
workforce. The percentage at senior management levels
is much smaller, and the available hiring pool is a fraction
of that. Given this lack of availability at an industry level,
companies would simply end up hiring and re-hiring
each others' senior executives, driving up industry-level
executive churn.
Instead, the industry should address this at a systemic
level, and collectively do more of what we are currently
doing at TCS. Run school-level programs to encourage
girls to pursue STEM education and careers, support
mentoring programs, provide opportunities to women
returning after career breaks, invest in leadership
development and increase the number of women at all
levels. That will expand the industry’s female leadership
pool and give everyone an opportunity to avail the
benefits of diversity.
Milind: Also, parachuting external candidates into
leadership positions just to achieve a diversity quota

One of the biggest contributors to our
industry-leading talent retention is our
long-standing policy of preferring internal
candidates for new leadership positions. Hence
our organic approach. This may take time to
show on the outside, but it is fairer to our
employees and more sustainable in the long run.

is demoralizing to existing employees, men and women,
whose own growth aspirations get derailed. One of
the biggest contributors to our industry-leading talent
retention is our long-standing policy of preferring internal
candidates for new leadership positions. Hence our organic
approach. This may take time to show on the outside, but it
is fairer to our employees and more sustainable in the long
run.

As you look at doubling your revenue, what will
TCS’ workforce look like? Will you have a million
employees?
Milind: We believe our workforce will be more diverse,
demographically and geographically. With a larger
business transformation component in our revenue mix,
I expect that we will also have more diverse capabilities
within the workforce – more researchers and innovators,
more business consultants across industry verticals and
technology horizontals, more product and IP owners, more
solution architects, and more specialists in softer areas like
empathetic design and organizational change management.
It is harder to predict how the headcount will grow. With a
larger component of G&T revenues with higher realizations,
IP-linked revenues and the mainstreaming of technologies
like low code/no code which are less effort intensive, we
should be able to double revenues without needing a
million employees. But even if it comes to that, we are no
longer intimidated by large numbers. Our model has proved
its scalability, and we are confident we will continue to
remain a benchmark in talent management.

Q&A | 44

Helping RS Components Deepen Customer Relationships and Drive Profitable Growth
RS Components, the world’s largest distributor of
electronics and maintenance products, is a trading
brand of UK-based Electrocomponents plc. The
company supplies industrial products, electronic
and electrical components, test and measurement
equipment, engineering tools and consumables
via e-commerce, telephone and RS Local stores. It
operates in 32 countries serving over 1.2 million
customers with 500,000 stocked products from over
2,500 leading suppliers.
RS Components partnered with TCS to create
a new business model that would enable new
value-added services in industrial maintenance,
foster closer relationships with customers, and
drive further demand for its products. TCS used its
Bringing Things to Life™ IoT framework, and its deep
domain knowledge in digital manufacturing, remote
diagnostics and predictive services to help build a new
AWS IoT based reporting and condition monitoring
system that has been branded RS Industria.
This scalable, secure new platform allows customers to
connect their manufacturing assets quickly and easily,
for real time monitoring that provides insights into the
causes of production losses and component failure.
RS Components’ first client for this solution, a food
manufacturing site in the UK, has a number of high
value assets such as industrial motors, production line
equipment and a treatment plant connected to the
platform. The real-time monitoring and insights

generated by the system have helped cut fresh water
consumption, and also reduce the effort and cost of
managing the wastewater treatment.
The system is also being used to help reduce the
site’s energy consumption by monitoring usage at
a production line level, highlighting specific areas of
energy loss in the production process. In the near
future, the customer is using the modularity of RS
Industria to rapidly expand the system to enable
condition monitoring of critical assets.

in other industry segments. Partnering with TCS
for its growth and transformation has helped RS
Components embrace a new business model that
makes it a valued and trusted business partner to
its customers, creates new revenue streams, boosts
profitability and reinforces its position as an innovation
pioneer in the industrial component ecosystem.

RS Components and TCS are now working together
to replicate this success for other end-customers

Partnering with TCS in launching RS
Industria brought a number of strengths to
us – their IIoT expertise, their knowledge
around remote diagnostics and predictive
services, their understanding of the Amazon
Web platform and how to build really
advanced solutions in that space and lastly
their collaborative way of working. All of
these helped us realize our vision around
this new offering much faster.
Richard Jeffers
Director, Industrial Design Solutions
RS Components
Customer Stories | 45

Boosting Colruyt’s Competitiveness with Algorithmic Pricing
Colruyt is a leading retailer in Europe with online
shops and over 1,000 physical outlets across Belgium,
Luxembourg and France. It has ten business formats
and diversified business lines.

monitoring competitors’ online and in-store prices and
promotions, and responding to changes with updated
prices for those items, as well as for hierarchically
linked items, across all stores and business formats.

Colruyt’s business success has been built on keeping
costs down and investing resources in guaranteeing
the lowest price for every product at any time.
But this is no easy feat. Staying on top means

Over time, Colruyt’s pricing processes were
finding it difficult to cope with the sheer volumes
and complexity. Colruyt started the successful
collaboration with TCS as the strategic partner to

At Colruyt, we continuously focus on
technology innovation to help our
businesses respond quickly to changes in
the market, and to grow. The Next-Gen
Pricing Engine is one such innovative,
mission-critical platform that we have built
in partnership with TCS. Their deep retail
industry knowledge, digital expertise and
collaborative ways of working helped us
accomplish our vision to harness the power
of AI, automation and digital technologies
to help elevate our brand and strengthen
our competitive edge.

harness the power of automation and other digital
technologies to transform its pricing platform.
Colruyt and TCS collaborated successfully to
implement the Next-Gen Pricing Engine, an
algorithmic, near real-time, intelligent system that
automates the deployment of the pricing strategy
across products, linked items, stores, channels and
brands. To improve the instore price recording from
competitor locations, a real time mobile app was
launched to boost the productivity and accuracy. The
system uses in-parallel memory processing for large
volumes of data to generate price recommendations
at near real time speed.
Very importantly, the engine caters to the varied
pricing strategies relevant to Colruyt’s different
business lines – regular everyday low prices, high-low,
promotions and markdown, enabling the competitive
benefits to accrue across the enterprise.
Partnering with TCS for the innovative use of
technology is helping Colruyt respond to competitors
24 x 7 with speed and agility, capturing over 100,000
competitor prices, and processing up to 50 million
reaction prices per day. This has helped the retailer
strengthen its competitive differentiation, live up to its
brand promise and drive growth.

Peter Vanbellingen
CIO, Colruyt IT
Customer Stories | 46

Transforming India’s Lending Sector with a New Digital Platform
Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) are a
key component of India’s financial ecosystem, helping
make credit and other financial services accessible
to the small-scale and unorganized sectors, and to
the large unbanked population. However, with low
technology intensity and largely manual processes,
these firms have struggled to meet consumer
expectations around digital experience and speed
of service on the one hand, and with regulatory
compliance and lack of easy access to capital on the
other hand. This has held back the sector’s growth
relative to the market’s potential.
Recognizing that the industry’s fragmented structure
and common attributes lent itself to a cloud-based
SaaS platform, TCS built a first-of-its-kind, cloudbased lending and securitization solution, bringing
together the power of two of its highly successful
products – TCS BaNCS™ and TCS iON™, and the
DigiGOV™ governance framework, to completely
digitize and reimagine the core processes for the
sector.
The new platform is a collaborative, connected
system that transforms the end-to-end lending and
securitization value chain, offering secure and timely
flow of data among stakeholders within the ecosystem.
It leverages AI and ML to enhance end-customer and
internal-stakeholder experience, and improve speed
and accuracy in decision-making.

NBFCs subscribing to the platform benefit
from enhanced customer experience, improved
liquidity, more resilient and agile operations, and
improved regulatory compliance across lending and
securitization. Impressed with the rich functionality,
flexibility and scalability of the solution, some of India’s
largest private sector banks are also adopting it for
their personal lending business.

Aadhar Housing Finance Limited, a housing finance
company with a pan-India presence implemented
TCS’ lending and securitization solution in FY 2022
and has been able to transform its operations, end to
end.
At the back end, TCS’ solution has helped strengthen
controls, ease regulatory compliance, enhance data
security and drive operational efficiency. On the front
end, it has enabled easier and more efficient customer
experience. The solution’s robust lead management
processes, with lead tracking and reporting have
helped drive Aadhar’s growth and expand its market
presence.

Our partnership with TCS is helping us to realise
our strategy of investing in technology enabled
solutions to improve customer experience.
We hope to reap the full benefit of this
transformation to expand our market reach.
Deo Shankar Tripathi
MD and CEO
Aadhar Housing Finance Limited
Customer Stories | 47

Notice

1.

To receive, consider and adopt:
a.

the Audited Standalone Financial
Statements of the Company for the
financial year ended March 31, 2022,
together with the Reports of the Board of
Directors and the Auditors thereon; and

b.

the Audited Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company for the
financial year ended March 31, 2022,
together with the Report of the Auditors
thereon.

2.

To confirm the payment of Interim Dividends on
Equity Shares and to declare a Final Dividend on
Equity Shares for the financial year 2021-22.

3.

To appoint a Director in place of N Ganapathy
Subramaniam (DIN 07006215) who retires by
rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for
re-appointment.

4.

Appointment of Statutory Auditors of the
Company
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the
following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

“RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions
of Sections 139, 142 and other applicable
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013,
and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,
2014, as amended from time to time,
B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration No. 101248W/W–100022)
be and is hereby re-appointed as Statutory
Auditors of the Company to hold office from
the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting
(“AGM”) till the conclusion of the
thirty-second AGM to be held in the year 2027,
at such remuneration, as may be mutually
agreed between the Board of Directors of the
Company and the Statutory Auditors.”

Notice is hereby given that the twenty-seventh
Annual General Meeting of Tata Consultancy
Services Limited will be held on Thursday,
June 9, 2022 at 3:30 p.m. (IST) through Video
Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means
(“OAVM”) to transact the following business:

5.

To approve existing as well as new material
related party transactions with Tata Sons
Private Limited and/or its subsidiaries,
Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover
Limited and/or its subsidiaries and the
subsidiaries of the Company (other than
wholly owned subsidiaries)
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the
following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions
of Regulation 23(4) of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as
Notice | 48

amended from time to time,
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”), the applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”)
read with Rules made thereunder, other
applicable laws/statutory provisions, if any,
(including any statutory modification(s) or
amendment(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for
the time being in force), the Company’s Policy
on Related Party Transactions, and subject
to such approval(s), consent(s), permission(s)
as may be necessary from time to time and
basis the approval and recommendation of the
Audit Committee and the Board of Directors
of the Company, the approval of the Members
of the Company be and is hereby accorded
to the Company to enter/continue to enter
into Material Related Party Transaction(s)/
Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/Agreement(s)
(whether by way of an individual transaction
or transactions taken together or series of
transactions or otherwise) with entities falling
within the definition of ‘Related Party’ under
Section 2(76) of the Act and Regulation 2(1)(zb)
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, in the course
of (a) availing and rendering of IT services/
ITeS/consulting service(s) (b) reimbursement of
expenses including towards availing/providing
for sharing/usage of each other’s resources viz.
employees, office space, infrastructure including
IT assets, taxes and related owned/third-party
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

this resolution) be and is hereby authorised to
do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it
may deem fit at its absolute discretion and to
take all such steps as may be required in this
connection including finalizing and executing
necessary documents, contract(s), scheme(s),
agreement(s) and such other documents as may
be required, seeking all necessary approvals to
give effect to this resolution, for and on behalf
of the Company and settling all such issues,
questions, difficulties or doubts whatsoever
that may arise and to take all such decisions
from powers herein conferred to, without being
required to seek further consent or approval
of the Members and that the Members shall be
deemed to have given their approval thereto
expressly by the authority of this resolution.”

services; (c) purchase/sale/exchange/transfer/
lease of business asset(s) and/or equipments to
meet its business objectives/requirements;
(d) transfer of any resources, services or
obligations to meet its business objectives/
requirements (“Related Party Transactions”) on
such material terms and conditions as detailed
in the explanatory statement to this Resolution
and as may be mutually agreed between
related parties and the Company, for each
of the financial years (FY) from FY 2022-23
to FY 2026-27 i.e. five financial years, such
that the maximum value of the Related Party
Transactions with such parties, in aggregate,
does not exceed value as specified under each
category for each financial year, provided
that the said contract(s)/arrangement(s)/
transaction(s) shall be carried out in the ordinary
course of business of the Company and in
respect of transactions with related parties
under Section 2(76) of the Act, are at arm’s
length basis.’
“RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of
Directors of the Company (hereinafter referred
to as ‘Board’ which term shall be deemed to
include the Audit Committee of the Company
and any duly constituted/to be constituted
Committee of Directors thereof to exercise
its powers including powers conferred under

“RESOLVED FURTHER that all actions taken
by the Board in connection with any matter
referred to or contemplated in this resolution,
be and are hereby approved, ratified and
confirmed in all respects.”
6.

Place of keeping and inspection of the
Registers and Annual Returns of the Company
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, the
following resolution as a Special Resolution:
“RESOLVED that in supersession of all
Resolutions passed earlier in this regard and
Notice | 49

pursuant to the provisions of Section 94
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules
made thereunder (including any statutory
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof
for the time being in force), approval of the
Members of the Company be and is hereby
accorded to keep the Registers as prescribed
under Section 88 of the Act and copies of
Annual Returns under Section 92 of the Act,
together with the copies of certificates and
documents required to be annexed thereto or
any other documents as may be required, at
the Registered Office of the Company and/or
at the office of TSR Consultants Private Limited
(formerly TSR Darashaw Consultants Private
Limited), Registrar and Transfer Agent of the
Company at C-101, 1st Floor, 247 Park, Lal
Bahadur Shastri Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai
400083, Maharashtra, India and/or such other
place where the office of the Registrar and
Transfer Agent of the Company is situated
within Mumbai, from time to time.”
“RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of
Directors or any Committee thereof of the
Company be and are hereby authorized to do
all such things and take all such actions as may
be required from time to time for giving effect
to the above resolution and matters related
thereto.”
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

hereto. Further, the relevant details with respect
to Item No. 3 pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial
Standard on General Meetings issued by the
Institute of Company Secretaries of India, in
respect of Director seeking re-appointment at
this AGM are also annexed.

Notes:
1.

2.

In view of the continuing COVID-19 pandemic,
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has
vide its General Circular nos. 14/2020 and
17/2020 dated April 8, 2020 and April 13,
2020 respectively, in relation to “Clarification
on passing of ordinary and special resolutions
by companies under the Companies Act, 2013
and the rules made thereunder on account
of the threat posed by Covid-19”, General
Circular no. 20/2020 dated May 5, 2020,
General Circular nos. 02/2021 and 21/2021
dated January 13, 2021 and December 14,
2021 respectively in relation to “Clarification
on holding of annual general meeting (AGM)
through video conferencing (VC) or other audio
visual means (OAVM)”, (collectively referred to
as “MCA Circulars”) permitted the holding of the
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) through
VC/OAVM, without the physical presence of the
Members at a common venue. In compliance
with the MCA Circulars, the AGM of the
Company is being held through VC/OAVM.
The registered office of the Company shall be
deemed to be the venue for the AGM.
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section
102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) setting
out material facts concerning the business
under Item Nos. 4 to 6 of the Notice, is annexed

3.

Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member
entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is
entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote
on his/her behalf and the proxy need not be
a Member of the Company. Since this AGM
is being held pursuant to the MCA Circulars
through VC/OAVM, physical attendance of
Members has been dispensed with.
Accordingly, the facility for appointment of
proxies by the Members will not be available
for the AGM and hence the Proxy Form,
Attendance Slip and route map of AGM are not
annexed to this Notice.

4.

Institutional shareholders/corporate
shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF’s,
NRI’s, etc.) are required to send a scanned copy
(PDF/JPG Format) of their respective Board
or governing body Resolution/Authorization
etc., authorizing their representative to attend
the AGM through VC/OAVM on their behalf
Notice | 50

and to vote through remote e-voting. The said
Resolution/Authorization shall be sent to the
Scrutinizer by e-mail on its registered e-mail
address to tcs.scrutinizer@gmail.com
with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in.
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than
individuals, HUF’s, NRI’s etc.) can also upload
their Board Resolution/Power of Attorney/
Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload
Board Resolution/Authority Letter” displayed
under “e-Voting” tab in their login.
5.

6.

The Company has fixed Thursday, May 26,
2022 as the “Record Date” for determining
entitlement of Members to final dividend for
the financial year ended March 31, 2022, if
approved at the AGM.
If the final dividend, as recommended by the
Board of Directors, is approved at the AGM,
payment of such dividend subject to deduction
of tax at source will be made on Monday,
June 13, 2022 as under:
i.

To all Beneficial Owners in respect of
shares held in dematerialized form as per
the data as may be made available by the
National Securities Depository Limited
(“NSDL”) and the Central Depository
Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”),
collectively “Depositories”, as of end of day
on Thursday, May 26, 2022;

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

ii.

7.

To all Members in respect of shares held
in physical form after giving effect to valid
transmission or transposition requests
lodged with the Company as of the close of
business hours on Thursday, May 26, 2022.

8.

Members may please note that SEBI vide
its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_
RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25,
2022 has mandated the listed companies
to issue securities in dematerialized form
only while processing service requests viz.
Issue of duplicate securities certificate; claim
from unclaimed suspense account; renewal/
exchange of securities certificate; endorsement;
sub-division/splitting of securities certificate;
consolidation of securities certificates/folios;
transmission and transposition. Accordingly,
Members are requested to make service
requests by submitting a duly filled and signed
Form ISR – 4, the format of which is available
on the Company’s website at
https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ and on the website
of the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agents,
TSR Consultants Private Limited (“TCPL”) at
https://www.tcplindia.co.in/. It may be noted that
any service request can be processed only after
the folio is KYC Compliant.

9.

SEBI vide its notification dated January 24,
2022 has mandated that all requests for
transfer of securities including transmission and
transposition requests shall be processed only in
dematerialized form. In view of the same and to
eliminate all risks associated with physical shares
and avail various benefits of dematerialisation,

Members are requested to intimate changes,
if any, pertaining to their name, postal address,
e-mail address, telephone/mobile numbers,
Permanent Account Number (PAN), mandates,
nominations, power of attorney, bank details
such as, name of the bank and branch details,
bank account number, MICR code, IFSC code,
etc.,:
a.

For shares held in electronic form: to
their Depository Participants (DPs)

b.

For shares held in physical form: to the
Company/Registrar and Transfer Agent in
prescribed Form ISR-1 and other forms
pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655
dated November 3, 2021. The Company
has sent letters along with Business
Reply Envelopes (BRE) for furnishing the
required details. Members may also refer
to Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) on
Company’s website
https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.

Notice | 51

Members are advised to dematerialise the shares
held by them in physical form. Members can
contact the Company or TCPL, for assistance in
this regard.
10. Members holding shares in physical form, in
identical order of names, in more than one
folio are requested to send to the Company or
TCPL, the details of such folios together with
the share certificates along with the requisite
KYC Documents for consolidating their holdings
in one folio. Requests for consolidation of share
certificates shall be processed in dematerialized
form.
11. As per the provisions of Section 72 of the
Act and SEBI Circular, the facility for making
nomination is available for the Members
in respect of the shares held by them.
Members who have not yet registered their
nomination are requested to register the
same by submitting Form No. SH-13. If a
Member desires to opt out or cancel the earlier
nomination and record a fresh nomination, he/
she may submit the same in Form ISR-3 or
SH-14 as the case may be. The said forms can
be downloaded from the Company’s website
https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ. Members are
requested to submit the said details to their
DP in case the shares are held by them in
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

dematerialized form and to TCPL in case the
shares are held in physical form.
12. In case of joint holders, the Member whose
name appears as the first holder in the order
of names as per the Register of Members of
the Company will be entitled to vote during the
AGM.
13. Members seeking any information with regard
to the financial statements or any matter to be
placed at the AGM, are requested to write to the
Company on or before June 8, 2022 through
email on investor.relations@tcs.com. The same
will be replied by the Company suitably.
14. Members are requested to note that, dividends
if not encashed for a period of 7 years from the
date of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account
of the Company, are liable to be transferred to
the Investor Education and Protection Fund
(“IEPF”). Further, all the shares in respect of
which dividend has remained unclaimed for 7
consecutive years or more from the date of
transfer to unpaid dividend account shall also
be transferred to IEPF Authority. In view of this,
Members are requested to claim their dividends
from the Company, within the stipulated
timeline. The Members, whose unclaimed
dividends/shares have been transferred to
IEPF, may claim the same by making an online

application to the IEPF Authority in web Form
No. IEPF-5 available on www.iepf.gov.in.
For details, please refer to Corporate
Governance Report which is a part of this
report and FAQ of investor page on Company’s
website https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.
15. Notice of the AGM along with the Integrated
Annual Report 2021-22 is being sent by
electronic mode to those Members whose
e-mail addresses are registered with the
Company/Depositories, unless any Member
has requested for a physical copy of the same.
In furtherance of the Green Initiative, physical
copy of the Notice of the AGM along with the
Abridged Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
is being sent by the permitted modes to those
Members whose e-mail addresses are not
registered. Members may note that the Notice
and Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 will also
be available on the Company’s website
www.tcs.com, websites of the Stock Exchanges
i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of
India Limited at www.bseindia.com and
www.nseindia.com respectively and on the
website of NSDL https://www.evoting.nsdl.com
16. Members attending the meeting through
VC/OAVM shall be counted for the purpose of
determining the quorum under Section 103 of
the Act.
Notice | 52

17. Pursuant to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend
income will be taxable in the hands of
shareholders w.e.f. April 1, 2020 and the
Company is required to deduct tax at source
from dividend paid to shareholders at the
prescribed rates. For the prescribed rates for
various categories, please refer to the Finance
Act, 2020 and the amendments thereof.
The shareholders are requested to update
their valid PAN with the DPs (if shares held in
dematerialized form) and the Company/TCPL
(if shares are held in physical form).
A Resident individual shareholder with PAN and
who is not liable to pay income tax can submit
a yearly declaration in Form No. 15G/15H, to
avail the benefit of non-deduction of tax at
source by e-mail to TCS-Exemptforms2223@
tcplindia.co.in by 11:59 p.m. IST on Tuesday,
May 24, 2022. Shareholders are requested to
note that in case their PAN is not registered,
or having invalid PAN or Specified Person as
defined under section 206AB of the
Income-tax Act (“the Act”), the tax will be
deducted at a higher rate prescribed under
section 206AA or 206AB of the Act, as
applicable.
Non-resident shareholders [including Foreign
Institutional Investors (FIIs)/Foreign Portfolio
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Investors (FPIs)] can avail beneficial rates under
tax treaty between India and their country of
tax residence, subject to providing necessary
documents i.e. No Permanent Establishment and
Beneficial Ownership Declaration, Tax Residency
Certificate, Form 10F, any other document
which may be required to avail the tax treaty
benefits. For this purpose the shareholder may
submit the above documents (PDF/JPG Format)
by e-mail to TCS-Exemptforms2223@tcplindia.
co.in. The aforesaid declarations and documents
need to be submitted by the shareholders by
11:59 p.m. IST on Tuesday, May 24, 2022.
For further details please refer to FAQs on
Taxation of Dividend Distribution at
https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.
18. Instructions for e-voting and joining the AGM
are as follows:
A.

VOTING THROUGH ELECTRONIC
MEANS

i.

In compliance with the provisions of
Section 108 of the Act, read with Rule
20 of the Companies (Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended
from time to time, Regulation 44 of the
SEBI Listing Regulations and in terms of
SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9,

2020 in relation to “e-voting Facility
Provided by Listed Entities”, the Members
are provided with the facility to cast their
vote electronically, through the e-voting
services provided by NSDL, on all the
resolutions set forth in this Notice.
The instructions for e-voting are given
herein below.
ii.

		

The remote e-voting period commences on
Monday, June 6, 2022 (9:00 a.m. IST) and
ends on Wednesday, June 8, 2022
(5:00 p.m. IST). During this period,
Members holding shares either in physical
form or in dematerialized form, as on
Thursday, June 2, 2022 i.e. cut-off date,
may cast their vote electronically.
The e-voting module shall be disabled
by NSDL for voting thereafter. Members
have the option to cast their vote on
any of the resolutions using the remote
e-voting facility, either during the period
commencing June 6, 2022 to June
8, 2022 or e-voting during the AGM.
Members who have voted on some of the
resolutions during the said voting period
are also eligible to vote on the remaining
resolutions during the AGM.
Notice | 53

iii.

iv.

v.

vi.

if he/she is already registered with
NSDL for remote e-voting then he/
she can use his/her existing User ID and
Password for casting the vote. In case of
individual shareholders holding securities
in dematerialized mode and who acquires
shares of the Company and becomes a
Member of the Company after sending of
the Notice and holding shares as of the
cut-off date may follow steps mentioned
below under “Login method for remote
e-voting and joining virtual meeting for
individual shareholders holding securities
in dematerialized mode.”

The Members who have cast their vote by
remote e-voting prior to the AGM may also
attend/participate in the AGM through
VC/OAVM but shall not be entitled to cast
their vote on such resolution again.
The Board of Directors has appointed
P N Parikh (Membership No. FCS 327)
and failing him, Jigyasa Ved (Membership
No. FCS 6488) of Parikh & Associates,
Company Secretaries as the Scrutinizer to
scrutinize the e-voting process in a fair and
transparent manner.
The voting rights of Members shall be in
proportion to their shares in the paid-up
equity share capital of the Company as on
the cut-off date.
Any person holding shares in physical
form and non-individual shareholders,
who acquires shares of the Company
and becomes a Member of the Company
after sending of the Notice and holding
shares as of the cut-off date, may obtain
the User ID and Password by sending a
request at evoting@nsdl.co.in. However,

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

vii. The details of the process and manner
for remote e-voting are explained herein
below:
		

The way to vote electronically on NSDL
e-voting system consists of “Two Steps”
which are mentioned below:

		

Step 1: Access to NSDL e-voting system

		

Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on
NSDL e-voting system.

Details on Step 1 are mentioned below:
I)

Login method for remote e-voting
and joining the virtual meeting and
joining the virtual meeting for individual
shareholders holding securities in
dematerialized mode

		

Pursuant to SEBI Circular no.
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242
dated December 9, 2020 on “e-voting
facility provided by Listed Companies”,
e-voting process has been enabled to all
the individual demat account holders, by
way of single login credential, through their
demat accounts/websites of Depositories/
DPs to increase the efficiency of the voting
process. Individual demat account holders
would be able to cast their vote without
having to register again with the e-voting
service provider (“ESP”) thereby not only
facilitating seamless authentication but also
ease and convenience of participating in
e-voting process. Shareholders are advised
to update their mobile number and e-mail
ID with their DPs to access e-voting facility.

Notice | 54

		

Login method for individual shareholders holding securities in dematerialized mode is given below:
Type of
shareholders
Individual
shareholders
holding securities
in dematerialized
mode with NSDL.

Login Method
A.

NSDL IDeAS facility
If you are already registered, follow the below steps:
1.

Visit the e-Services website of NSDL. Open web browser and type the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a
Personal Computer or on a mobile.

2.

Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under
“IDeAS” section.

3.

A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see
e-voting services.

4.

Click on “Access to e-voting” appearing on the left-hand side under e-voting services and you will be able to see e-voting page.

5.

Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider-NSDL and you will be re-directed to NSDL
e-voting website for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the
meeting.

If you are not registered, follow the below steps:
a.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com.

b.

Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp

c.

Please follow steps given in points 1-5.

Notice | 55

Type of
shareholders

Login Method
B. e-voting website of NSDL

C.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

1.

Open web browser and type the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or on a mobile
phone.

2.

Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’
section.

3.

A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number held with NSDL),
Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.

4.

After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL website wherein you can see e-voting page. Click on options
available against Company name or e-voting service provider-NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for
casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.

Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL mobile app “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the QR code mentioned below for
seamless voting experience.

Notice | 56

Type of
shareholders

Login Method

1.
Shareholders
holding securities in
dematerialized mode
with CDSL
2.

Existing users who have opted for Easi/Easiest, they can login through their User id and Password. Option will be made available
to reach e-voting page without any further authentication. The URL for users to login to Easi/Easiest are https://web.cdslindia.com/
myeasi/home/login or www.cdslindia.com and click on New System Myeasi.
After successful login of Easi/Easiest the user will be also able to see the e-voting menu. The menu will have links of e-voting service
provider i.e. NSDL. Click on NSDL to cast your vote.

3.

If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/Registration/
EasiRegistration

4.

Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing demat account number and PAN from a link in www.cdslindia.com
home page. The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile and e-mail as recorded in the demat Account.
After successful authentication, user will be provided links for the respective ESP i.e. NSDL where the e-voting is in progress.
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-voting facility.

1.
Individual
shareholders
2.
(holding securities
in dematerialized
mode) login through 3.
their DPs

Once logged-in, you will be able to see the e-voting option. Once you click on e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL
Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider-NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting website of
NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.

		Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forgot User details/Password option available at respective websites.
		

Helpdesk for individual shareholders holding securities in dematerialized mode for any technical issues related to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type

Helpdesk details

Securities held with NSDL

Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at
toll free no.: 1800 1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30

Securities held with CDSL

Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact
at 022-23058738 or 022-23058542/43

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 57

II)

Login method for e-voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than individual shareholders holding securities in dematerialized mode and
shareholders holding securities in physical mode.

		

How to Log-in to NSDL e-voting website?

		

1.

Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by clicking the URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.

		

2.

Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.

		

3.

A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, Password/OTP and a verification code as shown on the screen.

		

4.

Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDeAS, you can login at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing IDeAS login. Once you login to
NSDL eservices after using your login credentials, click on e-voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.

		

5.

Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding shares i.e.
Your User ID is:
Demat (NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
a) For Members who hold shares
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
in demat account with NSDL.
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then your User ID is IN300***12******
b) For Members who hold shares 16 Digit Beneficiary ID
in demat account with CDSL.
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your User ID is 12**************
c) For Members holding shares in EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the Company
Physical Form.
For example if EVEN is 123456 and folio number is 001*** then User ID is 123456001***

		

6.

Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are given below:

			

a)

If you are already registered for e-voting, then you can use your existing Password to login and cast your vote.

			

b)

If you are using NSDL e-voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ which was communicated to you by NSDL. Once
you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the system will force you to change your Password.

		

c)

How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?

				

(i)

If your e-mail ID is registered in your demat account or with the Company, your ‘initial password’ is communicated to you on your e-mail ID. Trace the
e-mail sent to you from NSDL in your mailbox from evoting@nsdl.com.Open the e-mail and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 58

The password to open the
.pdf file is your 8 digit client
ID for NSDL account, last 8
digits of client ID for CDSL
account or folio number for
shares held in physical form.
The .pdf file contains your
‘User ID’ and your ‘initial
password’.
			

		

7.

			

			

(ii) In case you have not
registered your e-mail
address with the Company/
Depository, please follow
instructions mentioned in
this Notice.
If you are unable to retrieve or have
not received the “Initial password” or
have forgotten your password:
a)

b)

Click on “Forgot User Details/
Password?” (If you are holding
shares in your demat account with
NSDL or CDSL) option available
on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
“Physical User Reset Password?”
(If you are holding shares in
physical mode) option available on
www.evoting.nsdl.com.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

			

c)

If you are still unable to get
the password by aforesaid two
options, you can send a request
at evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning
your demat account number/
folio number, PAN, name and
registered address.

			

d)

Members can also use the OTP
based login for casting the votes
on the e-voting system of NSDL.

		

8.

After entering your password, tick on
Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by
selecting on the check box.

		

9.

Now, you will have to click on “Login”
button.

		

10. After you click on the “Login” button,
home page of e-voting will open.

		Details on Step 2 are given below:
		

How to cast your vote electronically on
NSDL e-voting system?

		

1.

		

2.

After successful login at Step 1, you
will be able to see all the companies
“EVEN” in which you are holding
shares and whose voting cycle and
general meeting is in active status.
Select “EVEN” of Company, which is
119798 for which you wish to cast
your vote during the remote e-voting

period and casting your vote during
the General Meeting. For joining
virtual meeting, you need to click on
“VC/OAVM” link placed under “Join
Meeting”.
		

3.

Now you are ready for e-voting as the
voting page opens.

		

4.

Cast your vote by selecting appropriate
options i.e. assent or dissent, verify or
modify the number of shares for which
you wish to cast your vote and click
on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when
prompted.

		

5.

Upon confirmation, the message
“Vote cast successfully” will be
displayed and you will receive a
confirmation by way of a SMS on your
registered mobile number.

		

6.

You can also take the printout of the
votes cast by you by clicking on the
print option on the confirmation page.

		

7.

Once you confirm your vote on the
resolution, you will not be allowed to
modify your vote.

		

General guidelines for shareholders

		

1.

It is strongly recommended not to
share your password with any other
person and take utmost care to keep
Notice | 59

your password confidential. Login to
the e-voting website will be disabled
upon five unsuccessful attempts to
key in the correct password. In such
an event, you will need to go through
the “Forgot User Details/Password?”
or “Physical User Reset Password?”
option available on
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com
to reset the Password.
		

		

2.

3.

In case of any queries related
to e-voting, you may refer the
Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”)
for Shareholders and e-voting user
manual for Shareholders available at the
download section of
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com. For any
grievances connected with facility for
e-voting, please contact
Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, Manager, NSDL,
4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing, Trade World,
Kamala Mills Compound, Senapati
Bapat Marg, Lower Parel,
Mumbai 400 013,
e-mail: evoting@nsdl.co.in, toll free no:
1800 1020 990/1800 224 430.
Members may send a request to
evoting@nsdl.co.in for procuring
User id and Password for e-voting

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

by providing demat account number/
folio number, client master or copy
of Consolidated Account statement,
PAN (self-attested scanned copy of
PAN card), AADHAAR (self-attested
scanned copy of Aadhaar Card). If you
are an Individual shareholder holding
securities in dematerialized mode, you
are requested to refer to the login
method explained above.
		

B.

		

4.

The instructions for members for
e-voting on the day of the AGM are
mentioned in point number 18(A).

INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR
ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH VC/
OAVM ARE AS UNDER:
1.

Members will be able to attend the
AGM through VC/OAVM or view
the live webcast of AGM provided by
NSDL at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com
following the steps mentioned above
for login to NSDL e-voting system.
After successful login, you can see VC/
OAVM link placed under Join meeting
menu against company name. You are
requested to click on VC/OAVM link
placed under “Join Meeting” menu.

			

Members who do not have the User
ID and Password for e-voting or have
forgotten the User ID and Password
may retrieve the same by following
the remote e-voting instructions
mentioned in the Notice. Further
Members can also use the OTP based
login for logging into the e-voting
system of NSDL.

		

2.

Facility of joining the AGM through
VC/OAVM shall open 30 minutes
before the time scheduled for the
AGM.

		

3.

Members who need assistance before
or during the meeting, can contact
NSDL on evoting@nsdl.co.in/1800
1020 990 and 1800 224 430 or
contact Amit Vishal, Assistant Vice
President – NSDL at
amitv@nsdl.co.in/or Sanjeev Yadav,
Assistant Manager-NSDL at
sanjeevy@nsdl.co.in.

		

4.

Members who would like to express
their views or ask questions during
the AGM may register themselves as
a speaker by sending their request
from their registered e-mail address
mentioning their name, DP ID and
Notice | 60

Client ID/Folio number, PAN, mobile
number at tcsagm.speakers@tcs.
com from June 3, 2022 (9:00 a.m.
IST) to June 5, 2022 (5:00 p.m. IST).
Those Members who have registered
themselves as a speaker will only
be allowed to express their views/
ask questions during the AGM. The
Company reserves the right to restrict
the number of speakers depending on
the availability of time for the AGM.
		

Other instructions

		

1.

The Scrutinizer shall, immediately
after the conclusion of voting at the
AGM, unblock the votes cast through
remote e-voting (votes cast during

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

the AGM and votes cast through
remote e-voting) and will submit a
consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report
of the total votes cast in favour or
against, if any, to the Chairman or a
person authorised by him in writing,
who shall countersign the same. The
results will be announced within the
time stipulated under the applicable
laws.
		

2.

The result declared along with the
Scrutinizer’s Report shall be placed on
the Company’s website www.tcs.com
and on the website of NSDL
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com
immediately. The Company shall
simultaneously forward the results

to National Stock Exchange of India
Limited and BSE Limited, where the
shares of the Company are listed.
By Order of the Board of Directors
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary
Membership No. ACS 7016
Mumbai, April 11, 2022
Registered Office:
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point,
Mumbai 400 021, India
CIN: L22210MH1995PLC084781
Tel: +91 22 6778 9595
E-mail: investor.relations@tcs.com
Website: www.tcs.com

Notice | 61

Explanatory Statement
As required by Section 102 of the Companies
Act, 2013 (“Act”), the following explanatory
statement sets out all material facts relating to the
business mentioned under Item Nos. 4 to 6 of the
accompanying Notice:
Item No. 4
This explanatory statement is in terms of Regulation
36(5) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing
Regulations”), however, the same is strictly not
required as per Section 102 of the Act.
The Members at the twenty-second Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held on
June 16, 2017, had approved the appointment of
B S R & Co. LLP (“BSR”), Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022), as
Statutory Auditors of the Company, to hold office till
the conclusion of the twenty-seventh AGM.
After evaluating and considering various factors
such as industry experience, competency of
the audit team, efficiency in conduct of audit,
independence, etc., the Board of Directors of the
Company has, based on the recommendation of
the Audit Committee, at its meeting held on April
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

11, 2022, proposed the re-appointment of BSR,
Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.:
101248W/W-100022), as the Statutory Auditors
of the Company, for a term of five consecutive years
from the conclusion of twenty-seventh AGM till the
conclusion of thirty-second AGM of the Company to
be held in the year 2027, at a remuneration as may
be mutually agreed between the Board of Directors
and Statutory Auditors.
BSR have consented to their appointment as
Statutory Auditors and have confirmed that if
appointed, their appointment will be in accordance
with Section 139 read with Section 141 of the Act.
BSR is a member entity of B S R & Affiliates, a
network registered with the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India. BSR is registered in Mumbai,
Gurugram, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Pune,
Chennai, Chandigarh, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Noida,
Jaipur, Kochi and Vijayawada. BSR audits various
companies listed on stock exchanges in India.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set
out at Item No. 4 of the Notice for approval by the
Members.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
of the Company or their relatives is, in any way,
concerned or interested in the Resolution set out at
Item No. 4 of the Notice.

Item No. 5
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”),
vide its notification dated November 9, 2021, has
notified SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations,
2021 (“Amendments”) introducing amendments
to the provisions pertaining to the Related Party
Transactions under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”). The aforesaid
amendments inter-alia included replacing of
current threshold i.e. 10% (ten percent) of the listed
entity’s consolidated turnover, for determination
of material Related Party Transactions requiring
prior Shareholders’ approval with the threshold of
lower of `1,000 crore (Rupees One thousand crore)
or 10% (ten percent) of the annual consolidated
turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited
financial statements of the listed entity. Accordingly,
the threshold for determination of material Related
Party Transactions under Regulation 23(1) of the
SEBI Listing Regulations has been reduced with
effect from April 1, 2022.
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company”
or “TCS”), being a globally recognised provider of IT
services, participates in the digitisation initiatives of
entities within Tata group and partners in respective
entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During
the course of rendering such services, the Company
Notice | 62

also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources of entities within the “Tata Group”. The transactions that the Company has had with its related parties for the last three
years is given below:
Year ended March 31, 2022
Transactions
IT/ITE services rendered
Other income
Procurement of goods and services

(` crore)
Tata Sons
Private Limited

Subsidiaries of the
Company

Subsidiaries of Tata Sons
Private Limited

Associates/joint ventures of Tata Sons
Private Limited and their subsidiaries

Total

40

1,164

854

2,149

4,207

-

1

-

-

1

-

345

549

306

1,200

Brand equity contribution

100

-

-

-

100

Non IT/ITE services availed

1

-

19

45

65

Lease rental

-

-

86

11

97

Year ended March 31, 2021
Transactions
IT/ITE services rendered

(` crore)
Tata Sons
Private Limited

Subsidiaries of the
Company

Subsidiaries of Tata Sons
Private Limited

35

1,104

Associates/joint ventures of Tata Sons
Private Limited and their subsidiaries

670

Total

1,673

3,482

Other income

-

1

-

-

1

Procurement of goods and services

1

268

668

222

1,159

100

-

-

-

100

Non IT/ITE services availed

-

-

17

42

59

Lease rental

1

-

49

32

82

Brand equity contribution

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 63

Year ended March 31, 2020
Transactions

(` crore)
Tata Sons
Private Limited

Subsidiaries of the
Company

Subsidiaries of Tata Sons Private
Limited

Associates/joint ventures of Tata Sons
Private Limited and their Subsidiaries

Total

IT/ITE services rendered

31

1,069

488

1,780

3,368

Procurement of goods and services

1

222

923

404

1,550

Brand equity contribution

100

-

-

-

100

Non IT/ITE services availed

-

-

2

1

3

Lease rental

2

-

90

4

96

In view of the changes in the threshold for determining the related party transactions that require prior shareholder approval and considering the fact that the list of related
parties will change dynamically with no action on the part of the Company and to facilitate seamless contracting and rendering/availing of product and services between the
Company and “related parties”, the Company seeks the approval of the shareholders to approve entering into contracts/arrangements within the thresholds and conditions
mentioned in the resolution. All the contracts/arrangements and the transactions with “related parties” are reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee. Further, the
transactions that require testing of arm’s length pricing are certified by our Statutory Auditors for being at arm’s length.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 64

The details of transactions that require approval are given below:
1.

Tata Sons Private Limited and/or its Subsidiaries
Sr. No.

Description

Particulars

1.

Name of the related party

Tata Sons Private Limited and/or its subsidiaries (please refer to Annexure B for list of subsidiaries)

2.

Nature of relationship
[including nature of its interest (financial or otherwise)]

Holding Company – Tata Sons Private limited and its subsidiaries which are covered under Section 2(76)
of the Act.

3.

Type of the proposed transaction

(a)	Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and Digital Engineering, Digital
Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, and such related areas
(b) Supply of hardware and software,
(c) reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services
(d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
(e) Leasing of property
(f)	Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/requirements

4.

Nature, duration/tenure, material terms, monetary value
and particulars of contract/arrangement

Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that are generally prevalent in the
industry segments that the Company operates in. Monetary value of transactions with a single related party
subject to a maximum of 1.3 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum through
contracts/arrangements which are entered for a duration upto 5 years and a cumulative threshold of
5.2 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company across all related parties per annum.

5.

Particulars of the proposed transaction

Same as 3

6.

Tenure of the transaction

Contracts/arrangements with a duration upto 5 years

7.

Value of the proposed transaction

1.3 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum with a single related party subject to a
cumulative threshold of 5.2 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum across all related
parties in this category

8.

Percentage of TCS’s annual consolidated turnover, for the
immediately preceding financial year, that is represented
by the value of the proposed transaction

1.3 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company with single related party
5.2 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company across all related parties

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 65

Sr. No.

Description

Particulars

9.

Benefits of the proposed transaction

The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates in the digitisation initiatives of
entities within Tata group and partners in respective entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the
course of rendering such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources of entities
within the group. These transactions aim at providing enhanced level of user experience to the end-consumers
of Tata group and provide the entities within the group cutting edge technologies to sustain and grow their
business.

10.

Details of the valuation report or external party report
(if any) enclosed with the Notice

All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are reviewed for arm’s length testing
internally and by Statutory Auditors.

11.

Name of the Director or Key Managerial Personnel, who
is related

N Chandrasekaran, N Ganapathy Subramaniam and Aarthi Subramanian

12.

Following additional disclosures to be made in case loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given

A

Source of funds

NA

B

In case any financial indebtedness is incurred to make
or give loans, intercorporate deposits, advances or
investment:
•
Nature of indebtedness
•
cost of funds and
•
tenure of the indebtedness

NA

C

Terms of the loan, inter-corporate deposits, advances or
investment made or given
(including covenants, tenure, interest rate and repayment
schedule, whether secured or unsecured; if secured, the
nature of security)

NA

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 66

2.

Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or its subsidiaries
Sr. No.

Description

Particulars

1.

Name of the related party

Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or its subsidiaries (please refer to Annexure B for list of
subsidiaries)

2.

Nature of relationship

Tata Motors Limited is an associate of Tata Sons Private Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited is a subsidiary
of Tata Motors Limited and hence related party as per SEBI Listing Regulations.

[including nature of its interest (financial or otherwise)]
3.

Type of the proposed transaction

(a)	Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and Digital Engineering, Digital
Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, and such related areas
(b)

Supply of hardware and software,

(c)

reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services

(d)

Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc

(e)

Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/requirements

4.

Nature, duration/tenure, material terms, monetary value and
particulars of contract/arrangement

Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that are generally prevalent in the
industry segments that the Company operates in. Monetary value of transactions with a single related party
subject to a maximum of 1.3 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum through
contracts/arrangements which are entered for a duration upto 5 years and a cumulative threshold of
2.6 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company across all related parties per annum.

5.

Particulars of the proposed transaction

Same as 3

6.

Tenure of the transaction

Contracts/arrangements with a duration upto 5 years

7.

Value of the proposed transaction

1.3 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum with a single related party subject to
a cumulative threshold of 2.6 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum across all
related parties

8.

Percentage of TCS’s annual consolidated turnover, for the
immediately preceding financial year, that is represented by
the value of the proposed transaction.

1.3 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company with single related party

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

2.6 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company across all related parties

Notice | 67

Sr. No.

Description

Particulars

9.

Benefits of the proposed transaction

The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates in the digitisation initiatives of
entities within Tata group and partners in respective entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During
the course of rendering such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources of
entities within the group. These transactions aim at providing enhanced level of user experience to the
end-consumers of Tata group and provide the entities within the group cutting edge technologies to
sustain and grow their business.

10.

Details of the valuation report or external party report (if any)
enclosed with the Notice

Company’s governance policies with respect to negotiation with third parties are followed for all contracts/
arrangements with related party as defined under SEBI Listing Regulations. These contracts/arrangements
are approved by the Audit Committee on quarterly basis

11.

Name of the Director or Key Managerial Personnel, who is
related

N Chandrasekaran, N Ganapathy Subramaniam, Hanne Sorensen and O P Bhatt

12.

Following additional disclosures to be made in case loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given

A

Source of funds

NA

B

In case any financial indebtedness is incurred to make or give
loans, intercorporate deposits, advances or investment:

NA

C

•

Nature of indebtedness

•

cost of funds and

•

tenure of the indebtedness

Terms of the loan, inter-corporate deposits, advances or
investment made or given

NA

(including covenants, tenure, interest rate and repayment
schedule, whether secured or unsecured; if secured, the nature
of security)

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 68

3.

Subsidiaries of the Company (other than wholly owned subsidiaries)
Sr. No.

Description

Particulars

1.

Name of the related party

Subsidiaries of the Company (other than wholly owned subsidiaries) (please refer to Annexure B for list of subsidiaries)

2.

Nature of relationship

Subsidiaries of the Company which are covered under Section 2(76) of Companies Act, 2013

[including nature of its interest (financial or otherwise)]
3.

Type of the proposed transaction

(a)	Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation,
Analytics, Cyber Security, and such related areas
(b)

Supply of hardware and software,

(c)

reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services

(d)

Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc

(e)

Leasing of property

(f)

Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/requirements

4.

Nature, duration/tenure, material terms, monetary
value and particulars of contract/arrangement

Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that are generally prevalent in the industry
segments that the Company operates in. Monetary value of transactions with a single related party subject to a
maximum of 1.3 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum through contracts/arrangements
which are entered for a duration upto 5 years and a cumulative threshold of 2.6 percent of the consolidated turnover
of the Company across all related parties per annum.

5.

Particulars of the proposed transaction

Same as 3

6.

Tenure of the transaction

Contracts/arrangements with a duration upto 5 years

7.

Value of the proposed transaction

1.3 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum with a single related party subject to a cumulative
threshold of 2.6 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum across all related parties

8.

Percentage of TCS’s annual consolidated turnover,
for the immediately preceding financial year,
that is represented by the value of the proposed
transaction.

2.6 percent of the annual consolidated turnover of the Company and upto 50 percent of respective subsidiary turnover

(and for a related party transaction involving a
subsidiary, such percentage calculated on the basis of
the subsidiary’s annual turnover on a standalone basis
shall be additionally provided)
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 69

Sr. No.

Description

Particulars

9.

Benefits of the proposed transaction

As per global network delivery model of TCS, the subsidiaries operating in respective countries enters into the
contracts from customers and outsource the service delivery to the parent company TCS. Solutions framework along
with trained domain experts of TCS ensure delivery of high quality and certainty to the end customers at respective
countries.

10.

Details of the valuation report or external party
report (if any) enclosed with the Notice

All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are reviewed for arm’s length testing by
the Compliance team and Statutory Auditors

11.

Name of the Director or Key Managerial Personnel,
who is related

Person/s holding position of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director and/or Executive Director and/or Chief
Operating Officer

12.

Following additional disclosures to be made in case loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given

A

Source of funds

NA

B

In case any financial indebtedness is incurred
to make or give loans, intercorporate deposits,
advances or investment:

NA

C

•

Nature of indebtedness

•

cost of funds and

•

tenure of the indebtedness

Terms of the loan, inter-corporate deposits,
advances or investment made or given

NA

(including covenants, tenure, interest rate and
repayment schedule, whether secured or unsecured; if
secured, the nature of security)

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 70

None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel
of the Company or its respective relatives, other
than as mentioned above, is concerned or interested,
in the resolution.
The said transaction(s)/contract(s)/arrangement(s)
have been recommended by the Audit Committee
and Board of Directors of the Company for
consideration and approval by the Members.
It is pertinent to note that no related party shall vote
to approve this Resolution whether the entity is a
related party to the particular transaction or not.
Item No. 6
As per the provisions of Section 94 of the Act,
approval of the Members by way of a special
resolution is required for the Company to have its

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Register and Index of Members, the Register and
Index of Debentureholders, if any, copies of all
Annual Returns prepared under Section 92 of the
Act, together with the copies of the certificates and
documents required to be annexed thereto, to be
kept at a place other than the Company’s Registered
Office, but within the same city, town or village
where the Registered Office of the Company is
situated.
The Members of the Company at its twelfth
Annual General Meeting held on June 29, 2007,
had approved the Register of Members and other
returns/documents, etc. to be kept at the premises of
TSR Consultants Private Limited (“TCPL”) (formerly
known as TSR Darashaw Consultants Private
Limited), the Registrar and Transfer Agent (“RTA”)
of the Company at 6-10 Haji Moosa Patrawala

Industrial Estate, 20, Dr. E. Moses Road, Mahalaxmi,
Mumbai-400 011.
Owing to the shifting of the registered office of
TCPL, approval of the Members is sought by way
of a Special Resolution for keeping the aforesaid
documents at the Office of the Company’s Registrar
and Share Transfer Agents and/or at the other places
mentioned in the Resolution.
The Board recommends the resolution as set out
at Item No. 6 of the accompanying Notice for the
approval of the Members of the Company by way of
a Special Resolution.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel
of the Company or their relatives is, in any way,
concerned or interested, in the Resolution set out at
Item No. 6 of the Notice.

Notice | 71

Annexure A

Details of Directors seeking re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting
Particulars

N Ganapathy Subramaniam

DIN

07006215

Date of Birth and Age

May 20, 1959 (62 years)

Date of Appointment

February 21, 2017

Qualifications

Master’s Degree in Mathematics

Expertise in specific functional areas

Wide experience in Information Technology

Directorships held in other companies

Tata Elxsi Limited
TCS Foundation
Tata Communications Limited
Tejas Networks Limited

Memberships/Chairmanships of committees of other companies

Tata Elxsi Limited
•
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
•
Executive Committee*
•
Risk Management Committee

Number of Equity Shares held in the Company

197,760 Equity Shares

*Chairman
For other details such as number of meetings of the board attended during the year, remuneration drawn and relationship with other directors and key managerial
personnel, in respect of the above Director, please refer to the corporate governance report which is a part of this report.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 72

List of subsidiaries of Tata Sons Private Limited as on March 31, 2022 (Excluding Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its Subsidiaries)
Sr.
No.

Name

Sr.
No.

Name

1

Ewart Investments Limited

21

TCE QSTP-LLC

2

Tata Limited

22

Tata Engineering Consultants Saudi Arabia Company

3

Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited

23

Tata International AG, Zug

4

Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited

24

TRIF Investment Management Limited

5

Indian Rotorcraft Limited

25

Tata Advanced Systems Limited

6

Panatone Finvest Limited

26

Aurora Integrated Systems Private Limited

7

Akashastha Technologies Private Limited

27

Nova Integrated Systems Limited

8

Tejas Networks Limited

28

TASL Aerostructures Private Limited

9

Tejas Communication Pte Limited

29

Tata Capital Limited

10

Tejas Communications (Nigeria) Limited

30

Tata Capital Advisors Pte. Limited

11

TS Investments Limited

31

Tata Capital Financial Services Limited

12

Tata SIA Airlines Limited

32

Tata Capital General Partners LLP

13

Tata Incorporated

33

Tata Capital Growth Fund I

14

Tata Investment Corporation Limited

34

Tata Capital Healthcare General Partners LLP

15

Simto Investment Company Limited

35

Tata Capital Housing Finance Limited

16

Tata Asset Management Private Limited (formerly Tata Asset
Management Limited)

36

Tata Capital Plc

17

Tata Asset Management (Mauritius) Private Limited

37

Tata Capital Pte. Limited

18

Tata Pension Management Limited

38

Tata Cleantech Capital Limited

19

Tata Consulting Engineers Limited

39

Tata Opportunities General Partners LLP

20

Ecofirst Services Limited

40

Tata Securities Limited

41

Tata Capital Special Situation Fund

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Annexure B

Notice | 73

Sr.
No.

Name

Sr.
No.

Name

42

Tata Capital Healthcare Fund I

62

Tata Value Homes Limited (formerly Smart Value Homes Limited)

43

Tata Capital Innovations Fund

63

44

Tata Capital Growth Fund II

THDC Management Services Limited (formerly THDC Facility
Management Limited)

45

TCL Employee Welfare Trust

64

World-One (Sri Lanka) Projects Pte. Limited

46

Tata Capital Growth II General Partners LLP

65

World-One Development Company Pte. Limited

47

Tata Capital Healthcare Fund II

66

Synergizers Sustainable Foundation

48

Tata Capital Healthcare II General Partners LLP

67

Smart Value Homes (New Project) LLP

49

Tata Housing Development Company Limited

68

One Bangalore Luxury Projects LLP

50

Apex Realty Private Limited

69

Ardent Properties Private Limited

51

Concept Developers & Leasing Limited (formerly Concept Marketing and
Advertising Limited)

70

Princeton Infrastructure Private Limited

71

Land kart Builders Private Limited

52

HL Promoters Private Limited

72

Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited

53

HLT Residency Private Limited

73

Acme Living Solutions Private Limited

54

Kolkata-One Excelton Private Limited

74

Arrow Infraestate Private Limited

55

Kriday Realty Private Limited

56

Sector 113 Gatevida Developers Private Limited (formerly Lemon Tree
Land & Developers Private Limited)

75

Gurgaon Construct Well Private Limited

76

Gurgaon Realtech Limited

77

HV Farms Private Limited

78

TRIF Gurgaon Housing Projects Private Limited

79

Wellkept Facility Mangement Services Private Limited (formerly TRIL
Hospitality Private Limited)

57

One-Colombo Project (Private) Limited

58

Promont Hillside Private Limited

59

Promont Hilltop Private Limited

60

Smart Value Homes (Boisar) Private Limited (formerly Niyati Sales Private
Limited)

80

TRIL Roads Private Limited

61

Smart Value Homes (Peenya Project) Private Limited (formerly Smart
Value Homes (Boisar Project) Private Limited)

81

TRIL Urban Transport Private Limited

82

TRIL Infopark Limited

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 74

Sr.
No.

Name

Sr.
No.

Name

83

Hampi Expressways Private Limited

102

Inshaallah Investments Limited

84

Dharamshala Ropeway Limited

103

Tata Industries Limited

85

International Infrabuild Private Limited

104

Qubit Investments Pte. Limited

86

Uchit Expressways Private Limited

105

Flisom-AG

87

Durg Shivnath Expressways Private Limited (formerly SMS Shivnath
Infrastructure Private Limited)

106

915 Labs Inc (formerly 915 Labs LLC)

88

Matheran Rope-Way Private Limited

107

Flisom Hungary Kft

89

MIA Infrastructure Private Limited

108

Tata Autocomp Systems Limited

90

TRIL Bengaluru Real Estate One Private Limited

109

Automotive Stampings and Assemblies Limited

91

TRIL Bengaluru Consultants Private Limited (formerly TRIL Bengaluru
Real Estate Two Private Limited)

110

Nanjing Tata Autocomp Systems Limited

111

TACO Engineering Services GmbH

112

Changshu Tata AutoComp Systems Limited

113

Tata Toyo Radiator Limited

114

TACO Sasken Automotive Electronics Limited

115

Ryhpez Holding (Sweden) AB

116

TitanX Holding AB

117

TitanX Engine Cooling Inc.

118

TitanX Engine Cooling Kunshan Co. Ltd.

119

TitanX Engine Cooling AB

120

TitanX Refrigeracão de Motores LTDA
TitanX Engine Cooling, Poland

92

TRIL Bengaluru Real Estate Three Private Limited

93

TRIL IT4 Private Limited (formerly Albrecht Builder Private Limited)

94

Infopark Properties Limited

95

Tata Trustee Company Private Limited (formerly Tata Trustee Company
Limited)

96

Tata Play Limited (formerly Tata Sky Limited)

97

Actve Digital Services Private Limited

98

Tata Sky Broadband Private Limited (formerly Quickest Broadband
Private Limited)

99

TSBB Voice Private Limited

121

100

Niskalp Infrastructure Services Limited (formerly Niskalp Energy Limited)

122

Tata AutoComp Gotion Green Energy Solutions Private Limited

India Emerging Companies Investment Limited

123

TitanX Engine Cooling SRL

101

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 75

Sr.
No.

Name

Sr.
No.

Name

124

Tata International Limited

144

Tata Uganda Limited

125

Blackwood Hodge Zimbabwe (Private) Limited

145

Tata West Asia FZE

126

Calsea Footwear Private Limited

146

Tata Zambia Limited

127

Monroa Portugal, Comércio E Serviços, Unipessoal LDA

147

Tata Zimbabwe (Private) Limited (dormant)

128

Move On Retail Spain, S.L.

148

TIL Leather Mauritius Limited

129

Pamodzi Hotels Plc

149

Tata International West Asia DMCC

130

Tata Africa (Cote D’Ivoire) SARL

150

Motor-Hub East Africa Limited

131

Tata Africa Holdings (Ghana) Limited

151

Tata International Vietnam Company Limited

132

TATA Africa Holdings (Kenya) Limited

152

133

Tata Africa Holdings (SA) (Proprietary) Limited

Tata International Unitech (Senegal) SARL (formerly Tata Africa (Senegal)
S.A.R.L.)

134

Tata Africa Holdings (Tanzania) Limited

153

Tata International Canada Limited

135

Tata Africa Services (Nigeria) Limited

154

Newshelf 1369 Pty Ltd

136

Tata De Mocambique, Limitada

155

Alliance Finance Corporation Limited

137

Tata Holdings Mocambique Limitada

156

AFCL Ghana Limited

138

Tata International Metals (Americas) Limited (formerly Tata Steel
International (North America) Limited)

157

AFCL Premium Services Ltd.

158

AFCL Zambia Limited

139

Tata International Metals (Asia) Limited (formerly Tata Steel International
(Hongkong) Limited

159

Alliance Leasing Limited

140

Tata International Metals (Guangzhou) Limited

160

Stryder Cycle Private Limited

141

Tata International Metals (UK) Limited (formerly Tata Steel International
(UK) Limited)

161

AFCL RSA (Pty) Limited

162

142

Tata International Singapore Pte Limited

TISPL Trading Company Limited (formerly Tata International Myanmar
Limited)

143

Tata South East Asia (Cambodia) Limited

163

Société Financière Décentralisé Alliance Finance Corporation Senegal

164

Tata International DLT Private Limited

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 76

Sr.
No.

Name

Sr.
No.

Name

165

Taj Air Limited

166

Impetis Biosciences Limited

167

Tata Teleservices Limited

168

Tata Tele NXTGEN Solutions Limited (formerly MMP Mobi Wallet
Payment Systems Limited)

186
187
188
189
190

169

NVS Technologies Limited

170

TTL Mobile Private Limited (formerly Virgin Mobile (India) Private
Limited)

171

Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Limited

172

AirAsia (India) Limited

173

Tata Digital Private Limited (formerly Tata Digital Limited)

174

Tata Payments Limited

175

Supermarket Grocery Supplies Private Limited

176

Innovative Retail Concepts Private Limited

177

Savis Retail Private Limited

178

Delyver Retail Network Private Limited

179

Dailyninja Delivery Services Private Limited

180

Tata 1mg Technologies Private Limited

181

Tata 1mg Healthcare Solutions Private Limited

182

LFS Healthcare Private Limited

183

Infiniti Retail Limited

184

Tata Fintech Private Limited

Tata Medical and Diagnostics Limited
Talace Private Limited
Air India Limited
Air India Express Limited
Tata Electronics Private Limited (formerly TRIL Bengaluru Real Estate
Four Private Limited)
Vidiyal Residency Private Limited
Tata Business Hub Limited
Tata Elxsi Limited
Tata Communications Limited
Tata Communications Transformation Services Limited
Tata Communications Collaboration Services Private Limited
Tata Communications Payment Solutions Limited
Tata Communications Lanka Limited
Tata Communications Services (International) Pte. Limited
Tata Communications (Bermuda) Limited
Tata Communications (Netherlands) B.V.
Tata Communications (Hong Kong) Limited
ITXC IP Holdings S.A.R.L.
Tata Communications (America) Inc.
Tata Communications (International) Pte Limited
Tata Communications (Canada) Limited

185

Protraviny Private Limited

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207

TATA COMMUNICATIONS (BELGIUM) SRL
(formerly Tata Communications (Belgium) S.P.R.L.)
Notice | 77

Sr.
No.

Name

Sr.
No.

Name

208

Tata Communications (Italy) SRL

229

Tata Communications (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

209

Tata Communications (Portugal) Unipessoal LDA

230

Tata Communications Transformation Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd

210

Tata Communications (France) SAS

231

Tata Communications (Spain) S.L.

211

Tata Communications (Nordic) AS

232

Tata Communications (Beijing) Technology Limited

212

Tata Communications (Guam) L.L.C.

233

VSNL SNOSPV Pte. Limited

213

Tata Communications (Portugal) Instalacao E Manutencao De Redes LDA

234

Tata Communications (South Korea) Limited

214

Tata Communications (Australia) Pty Limited

235

Tata Communications Transformation Services (Hungary) Kft.

215

Tata Communications SVCS Pte Ltd (formerly Tata Communications
Services (Bermuda) Limited

236

Tata Communications Transformation Services Pte Limited

216

Tata Communications (Poland) SP.Z.O.O.

237

Tata Communications (Brazil) Participacoes Limitada

217

Tata Communications (Japan) KK.

238

Tata Communications Transformation Services (US) Inc

218

Tata Communications (UK) Limited

239

Tata Communications Comunicacoes E Multimídia (Brazil) Limitada

219

Tata Communications Deutschland GMBH

240

Nexus Connexion (SA) Pty Limited

220

Tata Communications (Middle East) FZ-LLC

241

SEPCO Communications (Pty) Limited

221

Tata Communications (Hungary) KFT

242

Tata Communications (New Zealand) Limited

222

Tata Communications (Ireland) DAC

243

Tata Communications MOVE B.V.(formerly Teleena Holding B.V.)

223

Tata Communications (Russia) LLC

244

Tata Communications MOVE Nederland B.V. (formerly Teleena Nederland
B.V.)

224

Tata Communications (Switzerland) GmbH

245

MuCoso B.V. (formerly Tata Communications MuCoso B.V.)

225

Tata Communications (Sweden) AB

246

NetFoundry Inc.

226

TCPOP Communication GmbH

247

TCTS Senegal Limited

227

Tata Communications (Taiwan) Limited

248

OASIS Smart SIM Europe SAS

228

Tata Communications (Thailand) Limited

249

Oasis Smart E-Sim Pte Ltd

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 78

List of subsidiaries of Tata Motors Limited as on March 31, 2022
Sr.
No.

Name

Sr.
No.

Name

1

TML Business Services Limited (TMLBSL)

19

PT Tata Motors Indonesia

2

Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Limited

20

PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia

3

Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A.

21

Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc

4

Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb SA

22

Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited

5

TMF Holdings Limited

23

Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Limited

6

TML Holdings Pte. Limited

24

Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited

7

Brabo Robotics and Automation Limited

25

Limited Liability Company “Jaguar Land Rover” (Russia)

8

Tata Precision Industries Pte. Limited

26

Jaguar Land Rover (China) Investment Co. Ltd.

9

Tata Technologies Limited

27

Jaguar Land Rover Limited

10

Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited

28

In-Car Ventures Limited

11

JT Special Vehicles Pvt. Limited

29

Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Services Company Limited

12

TML CV Mobility Solutions Limited

30

Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH

13

Tata Passenger Electric Mobility Ltd.

31

Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited

Tata Motors Passenger Vehicles Limited (Name changed from TML
Business Analytics Services Limited with effect from September 17,
2021)

32

JLR Nominee Company Limited (dormant)

33

Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH

34

Jaguar Land Rover Classic Deutschland GmbH

35

Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC

36

Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV

37

Jaguar Land Rover Portugal-Veículos e Peças, Lda.

38

Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited

39

Jaguar Land Rover Italia Spa

14

15

Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC

16

Trilix S.r.l.

17

Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited

18

Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Sales and Distribution Company
Limited

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 79

Sr.
No.

Name

Sr.
No.

Name

40

Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited

62

Jaguar Land Rover Servicios México, S.A. de C.V.

41

Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC

63

Jaguar Land Rover México, S.A.P.I. de C.V.

42

Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS

64

Jaguar Land Rover Hungary KFT

43

Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Veículos LTDA

65

Jaguar Land Rover Classic USA LLC (dormant)

44

Jaguar Land Rover India Limited

66

Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings Limited

45

Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL

67

Jaguar Land Rover Ventures Limited

46

Jaguar Land Rover Belux NV

68

InMotion Ventures Limited

47

Jaguar Cars South Africa (Pty) Limited (dormant)

69

Spark44 (JV) Limited

48

Jaguar Cars Limited (dormant)

70

Bowler Motors Limited

49

Land Rover Exports Limited (dormant)

71

Jaguar Land Rover (Ningbo) Trading Co. Limited

50

Land Rover Ireland Limited (non-trading)

72

Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (Pty) Limited

51

The Daimler Motor Company Limited (dormant)

73

Spark44 Pty. Ltd. (Sydney, Australia)

52

Daimler Transport Vehicles Limited (dormant)

74

Spark44 GmbH (Frankfurt, Germany)

53

S.S. Cars Limited (dormant)

75

Spark44 LLC (NYC, USA)

54

The Lanchester Motor Company Limited (dormant)

76

Spark44 Shanghai Limited (Shanghai, China)

55

Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited (dormant)

77

Spark44 DMCC (Dubai, UAE)

56

Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o

78

Spark44 Demand Creation Partners Private Limited (Mumbai, India)

57

Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte. Ltd.

79

Spark44 Limited (London & Birmingham, UK)

58

Jaguar Racing Limited

80

Spark44 Singapore Pte. Ltd. (Singapore)

59

Jaguar Land Rover Colombia S.A.S

81

Spark44 Communications SL (Madrid, Spain)

60

Jaguar Land Rover Ireland (Services) Limited

82

Spark44 S.r.l. (Rome, Italy)

61

Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Company Limited

83

Spark44 Seoul Limited (Korea)

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Notice | 80

Sr.
No.

Name

84

Spark44 Japan K.K. (Tokyo, Japan)

85

Spark44 Canada Inc (Toronto, Canada)

86

Spark44 Pty. Limited (South Africa)

87

Spark44 Colombia S.A.S. (Colombia)

88

Spark44 Taiwan Limited (Taiwan)

89

InMotion Ventures 2 Limited

90

InMotion Ventures 3 Limited

91

Tata Technologies Pte. Limited

92

Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited

93

Tata Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Limited

94

INCAT International Plc.

95

Tata Technologies GmbH

96

Tata Technologies Europe Limited

97

Tata Technologies Nordics AB

98

Tata Technologies Inc.

99

Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

100

Cambric Limited

101

Tata Technologies SRL Romania

102

Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited

103

Tata Motors Finance Limited

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

List of subsidiaries of the Company (other than wholly owned subsidiaries) as
on March 31, 2022
Sr
No.

Name of the Subsidiary

1

APTOnline Limited

2

MP Online Limited

3

C-Edge Technologies Limited

4

MahaOnline Limited

5

Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd.

6

Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.

Notice | 81

Directors’
Report

To the Members,
The Directors present this Integrated Annual Report of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (the Company or TCS)
along with the audited financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2022.
To support ‘Green initiative’, the Abridged Integrated Annual Report has been sent to the Members whose e-mail
ids are not registered with the Company / Depositories.
The consolidated performance of the Company and its subsidiaries has been referred to wherever required.
1.

Financial results

Revenue from operations
Other income
Total income
Expenses
Operating expenditure
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Total expenses
Profit before finance costs, exceptional item and tax
Finance costs
Profit before exceptional item and tax
Exceptional item
Provision towards legal claim
Profit before tax
Tax expense
Profit for the year
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company
Non-controlling interests
Opening balance of retained earnings
Closing balance of retained earnings
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

(` crore)
Standalone
Financial Year Financial Year
2021-22
2020-21
(FY 2022)
(FY 2021)

1,60,341
7,486
1,67,827

1,35,963
5,400
1,41,363

1,14,096
3,522
1,17,618
50,209
486
49,723

Consolidated
Financial Year Financial Year
2021-22
2020-21
(FY 2022)
(FY 2021)

1,91,754
4,018
1,95,772

1,64,177
3,134
1,67,311

95,653
3,053
98,706
42,657
537
42,120

1,38,697
4,604
1,43,301
52,471
784
51,687

1,17,631
4,065
1,21,696
45,615
637
44,978

49,723
11,536
38,187

1,218
40,902
9,942
30,960

51,687
13,238
38,449

1,218
43,760
11,198
32,562

38,187
NA
70,928
68,949

30,960
NA
71,532
70,928

38,327
122
79,586
78,158

32,430
132
78,810
79,586

Directors' Report | 82

2.

COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic, continued to be a
global challenge, creating disruption across the
world. In the first three months of FY 2022,
the second wave of the pandemic overwhelmed
India’s medical infrastructure. Through this
trying period, hospitalization support was
provided and Covid care centers were opened
in TCS facilities in 13 cities to help affected
associates and their families. This was in
addition to the medical helplines, self-help and
counseling services provided from the start of
the pandemic.
Amid the pandemic, the Company launched a
PAN-India vaccination drive for its employees
and their families to ensure the safety and
well-being of the associates and their families
covering over a million individuals in all, across all
the TCS locations and smaller cities from where
some of the employees were remote-working.

3.

Return of surplus funds to Shareholders
In line with the practice of returning 80 to
100 percent free cash flow to shareholders
and based on the Company’s performance, the
Directors have declared three interim dividends
of `7 per equity share aggregating to
`21 per equity share involving a cash outflow

*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

of `7,768 crore during the year. The Directors
have also recommended a final dividend of
`22 per equity share, the final dividend on
equity shares, if approved by the Members,
would involve a cash outflow of `8,050 crore.
The total dividend for FY 2022 amounts to
`43 per equity share and would involve a
total cash outflow of `15,818 crore, resulting
in a dividend payout of 41.4 percent of the
standalone profits of the Company.
In addition to the above, the Company bought
back 4,00,00,000 equity shares at a price
of `4,500 per equity share for an aggregate
consideration of `18,000 crore. The offer
size of the buyback was 21.03 percent and
19.06 percent of the aggregate fully paid-up
equity share capital and free reserves as per
audited condensed standalone interim financial
statements and audited condensed consolidated
interim financial statements of the Company as
at December 31, 2021, respectively.
The buyback represented 1.08 percent of the
total issued and paid-up equity share capital of
the Company as at December 31, 2021.
The settlement of bids and payment of buyback
consideration was made on March 28, 2022 and
the shares were extinguished on
March 29, 2022.
The shareholders’ payout with respect to
dividend and buyback including tax on buyback

(excluding transaction costs, other incidental
and related expenses) aggregated to
`38,010 crore, resulting in a payout of
99.5 percent of the standalone profits of
the Company.
For FY 2021, the Company paid a total dividend
of `38 per equity share, which resulted in an
outflow of `14,147 crore and a dividend payout
of 44.3 percent* of the standalone profits of
the Company. In addition to the above, the
Company bought back 5,33,33,333 equity
shares at a price of `3,000 per equity share for
an aggregate consideration of `16,000 crore.
The offer size of the buyback was 19.96 percent
and 18.11 percent of the aggregate paid-up
equity share capital and free reserves as per
audited condensed standalone interim financial
statements and audited condensed consolidated
interim financial statements of the Company as
at September 30, 2020, respectively.
The buyback represented 1.42 percent of the
total issued and paid-up equity share capital
of the Company. The buyback process was
completed and the shares were extinguished on
January 6, 2021.
The Dividend Distribution Policy, in terms
of Regulation 43A of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
Directors' Report | 83

and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) is available on
the Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/
Dividend.
4.

Transfer to reserves
The closing balance of the retained earnings
of the Company for FY 2022, after all
appropriations and adjustments was
`68,949 crore.

5.

Company’s performance
On a consolidated basis, the revenue for
FY 2022 was `1,91,754 crore, higher by
16.8 percent over the previous year’s revenue
of `1,64,177 crore. The profit after tax (“PAT”)
attributable to shareholders and non-controlling
interests for FY 2022 and FY 2021 was
`38,449 crore and `33,520 crore*, respectively.
The PAT attributable to shareholders for
FY 2022 was `38,327 crore* registering
a growth of 14.8 percent over the PAT of
`33,388 crore* in FY 2021.

On a standalone basis, the revenue for FY 2022
was `1,60,341 crore, higher by 17.9 percent
over the previous year’s revenue of
`1,35,963 crore. The PAT attributable to
shareholders in FY 2022 was `38,187 crore
registering a growth of 19.6 percent over the
PAT of `31,918 crore* in FY 2021.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

6.

Quality initiatives
The Company continues to sustain its
commitment to the highest levels of quality,
superior service management, robust
information security practices and mature
business continuity management.
TCS’ integrated Quality Management System
(iQMS™) continues to enable outstanding value
and experience to its customers. iQMS™ is
continually enhanced for new service offerings,
emerging delivery methodologies, industry best
practices and latest technologies.
TCS successfully completed the annual ISO
surveillance audit and has been recommended
for continuation of its enterprise-wide
certification. This year, TCS has expanded
the scope of enterprise certification to
include conformance to Privacy Information
Management Systems Standard
(ISO 27701:2019). TCS’s enterprise ISO
certification scope includes conformance to
the following globally recognized standards:
ISO 9001:2015 (Quality Management),
ISO 20000:2018 (IT Service Management),
ISO 22301:2019 (Business Continuity
Management), ISO 27001:2013 (Information
Security Management) and compliance to
ISO 27017:2015 (Information Security

Controls for Cloud Services), ISO 27018:2019
(Protection of PII in Public Clouds as PII
Processors) and ISO 27701:2019 (Privacy
Information Management Systems).
During second wave of the pandemic, the
Company was actively monitoring all customer
engagements across the globe to minimize
risks and ensure continuity of services. This was
achieved through daily tracking, digitized
multi-level dashboards and differentiated
governance of critical engagements.
The customer-centricity, rigor in operations
and focus on delivery excellence have resulted
in sustained high customer satisfaction levels in
the periodic surveys conducted by the Company.
This is validated by top rankings in third party
surveys as well. In these surveys, TCS achieved
the top position in customer satisfaction for
the ninth consecutive year, with an overall
satisfaction score of 84 percent compared to
the industry average of 75 percent.
TCS has also received multiple awards from
CII and National Institute for Quality and
Reliability this year. TCS won the Data Security
Council of India (DSCI) Excellence Award 2021
in two categories - Best Privacy Practices in
Organization and Best Security Practices in
IT-ITes/ BPM (Large).
Directors' Report | 84

7.

Subsidiary companies
The Company has 52 subsidiaries as on
March 31, 2022. There are no associates or
joint venture companies within the meaning
of Section 2(6) of the Companies Act, 2013
(“Act”). There has been no material change in
the nature of the business of the subsidiaries.
•

The name of W12 Studios Limited was
changed to Tata Consultancy Services UK
Limited w.e.f. May 24, 2021.

•

On May 26, 2021, Tata Consultancy
Services Netherlands B.V., a 100 percent
subsidiary of the Company, increased
its equity stake to 100 percent in Tata
Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia on
acquisition of Saudi Desert Rose Holding
B.V.

•

•

Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited,
a 100 percent subsidiary of the Company,
incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary,
Tata Consultancy Services Bulgaria EOOD
in Bulgaria on August 31, 2021.
TCS Iberoamerica SA, a 100 percent
subsidiary of the Company, incorporated
a subsidiary, Tata Consultancy Services
Guatemala, S.A. in Guatemala on
September 1, 2021.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

•

The name of Postbank Systems AG
changed to TCS Technology Solutions AG
w.e.f. December 27, 2021.

•

TCS e-Serve America, Inc. was liquidated
w.e.f. December 29, 2021.

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3)
of the Act, a statement containing the
salient features of financial statements of the
Company’s subsidiaries in Form No. AOC-1
is attached to the financial statements of the
Company.
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section
136 of the Act, the financial statements of the
Company, consolidated financial statements along
with relevant documents and separate audited
financial statements in respect of subsidiaries, are
available on the Company’s website at
https://www.tcs.com/investor-relations.
8.

ii.

they have selected such accounting
policies and applied them consistently and
made judgments and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent so as to give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company at the end of the financial year
and of the profit of the Company for that
period;

iii.

they have taken proper and sufficient
care for the maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the
assets of the Company and for preventing
and detecting fraud and other irregularities;

iv.

they have prepared the annual accounts on
a going concern basis;

v.

they have laid down internal financial
controls to be followed by the Company
and such internal financial controls are
adequate and operating effectively;

vi.

they have devised proper systems to
ensure compliance with the provisions of all
applicable laws and that such systems are
adequate and operating effectively.

Directors’ responsibility statement
Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act, the
Board of Directors, to the best of its knowledge
and ability, confirm that:
i.

in the preparation of the annual accounts,
the applicable accounting standards have
been followed and there are no material
departures;

Based on the framework of internal financial
controls and compliance systems established
and maintained by the Company, the work
Directors' Report | 85

performed by the internal, statutory and
secretarial auditors and external consultants,
including the audit of internal financial controls
over financial reporting by the statutory auditors
and the reviews performed by management and
the relevant board committees, including the
audit committee, the Board is of the opinion
that the Company’s internal financial controls
were adequate and effective during FY 2022.
9.

Directors and key managerial personnel
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on
October 8, 2021, subject to approval of the
shareholders, approved the re-appointment
of Rajesh Gopinathan (DIN 06365813) as the
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
of the Company for a further period of five
years from February 21, 2022 and
re-appointment of N Ganapathy Subramaniam
(DIN 07006215) as Chief Operating Officer and
Executive Director from February 21, 2022 to
May 19, 2024, as per the retirement age policy
for the Directors of the Company.
N Ganapathy Subramaniam (DIN 07006215)
retires by rotation and being eligible, offers
himself for re-appointment. A resolution
seeking shareholders’ approval for his
re-appointment along with other required
details forms part of the Notice.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149
of the Act, the independent directors have

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

submitted declarations that each of them meet
the criteria of independence as provided in
Section 149(6) of the Act along with Rules
framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of
the SEBI Listing Regulations. There has been
no change in the circumstances affecting their
status as independent directors of the Company.
During the year under review, the nonexecutive directors of the Company had no
pecuniary relationship or transactions with the
Company, other than sitting fees, commission
and reimbursement of expenses, if any.
Samir Seksaria took over as the Chief Financial
Officer, with effect from May 1, 2021, in place of
V Ramakrishnan, who retired from the services
of the Company w.e.f. April 30, 2021.
Samir Seksaria has been with TCS since 1999
and has held various positions in business
consulting and finance. He is a commerce
graduate from Narsee Monjee College, Mumbai
and a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India.
During the year under review, the Board at its
meeting held on October 8, 2021 appointed
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde as the Company
Secretary and Compliance Officer of the
Company to take over from Rajendra Moholkar
as Company Secretary and Compliance Officer,

with effect from November 1, 2021.
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde is a member of the
Institute of Company Secretaries of India and
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
He has degrees in Commerce and General Law.
He joined TCS in 2006 and has over thirty
years of experience in finance, governance and
secretarial functions.
The Board places on record its appreciation
for V Ramakrishnan and Rajendra Moholkar
for their invaluable contribution and guidance
during their tenure as Chief Financial Officer,
and Company Secretary and Compliance Officer,
respectively.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of
the Act, Rajesh Gopinathan, Chief Executive
Officer and Managing Director,
N Ganapathy Subramaniam, Chief Operating
Officer and Executive Director, Samir Seksaria,
Chief Financial Officer and Pradeep Manohar
Gaitonde, Company Secretary are the Key
Managerial Personnel of the Company as on
March 31, 2022.
10. Number of meetings of the Board
Five meetings of the Board were held during
the year. For details of meetings of the Board,
please refer to the Corporate Governance
Report, which is a part of this report.
Directors' Report | 86

11. Board evaluation
The Board of Directors has carried out an
annual evaluation of its own performance, board
committees, and individual directors pursuant
to the provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing
Regulations.
The performance of the board was evaluated
by the Board after seeking inputs from all the
directors on the basis of criteria such as the board
composition and structure, effectiveness of board
processes, information and functioning, etc.
The performance of the committees was
evaluated by the Board after seeking inputs
from the committee members on the basis of
criteria such as the composition of committees,
effectiveness of committee meetings, etc.
The above criteria are broadly based on the
Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued by
the Securities and Exchange Board of India
on January 5, 2017. In a separate meeting of
independent directors, performance of
non-independent directors, the Board as a
whole and Chairman of the Company was
evaluated, taking into account the views of
executive directors and non-executive directors.

performance of individual directors on the
basis of criteria such as the contribution of the
individual director to the board and committee
meetings like preparedness on the issues to
be discussed, meaningful and constructive
contribution and inputs in meetings, etc.
At the board meeting that followed the meeting
of the independent directors and meeting of
Nomination and Remuneration Committee,
the performance of the Board, its Committees,
and individual directors was also discussed.
Performance evaluation of independent directors
was done by the entire Board, excluding the
independent director being evaluated.
12. Policy on directors’ appointment and
remuneration and other details
The Company’s policy on appointment of
directors is available on the Company’s website
at https://on.tcs.com/ApptDirectors.
The policy on remuneration and other matters
provided in Section 178(3) of the Act has been
disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report,
which is a part of this report and is also available
on the Company’s website at
https://on.tcs.com/remuneration-policy.

13. Corporate social responsibility (CSR)
TCS’ CSR initiatives and activities are aligned to
the requirements of Section 135 of the Act.
The brief outline of the CSR policy of the
Company and the initiatives undertaken by the
Company on CSR activities during the year
are set out in Annexure I of this report in the
format prescribed in the Companies (Corporate
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
For other details regarding the CSR Committee,
please refer to the Corporate Governance
Report, which is a part of this report. This Policy
is available on the Company’s website at
https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy
14. Internal financial control systems and their
adequacy
The details in respect of internal financial
control and their adequacy are included in the
Management Discussion and Analysis, which is a
part of this report.
15. Audit committee
The details pertaining to the composition of the
Audit Committee are included in the Corporate
Governance Report, which is a part of this report.

The Board and the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee reviewed the
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Directors' Report | 87

16. Auditors
B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration No.101248W/W-100022)
the statutory auditors of the Company, will hold
office till the conclusion of the twenty-seventh
Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Board has recommended the
re-appointment of B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered
Accountants as the statutory auditors of the
Company, for a second term of five consecutive
years, from the conclusion of the
twenty-seventh Annual General Meeting
scheduled to be held in the year 2022 till
the conclusion of the thirty-second Annual
General Meeting to be held in the year 2027,
for approval of shareholders of the Company,
based on the recommendation of the Audit
Committee.
17. Auditor’s report and Secretarial audit report
The statutory auditor’s report and the
secretarial auditor’s report do not contain any
qualifications, reservations, or adverse remarks
or disclaimer. Secretarial audit report is attached
to this report as Annexure II.
18. Risk management
The Board of Directors of the Company
has formed a Risk Management Committee
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

to frame, implement and monitor the risk
management plan for the Company.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring
and reviewing the risk management plan and
ensuring its effectiveness. The Audit Committee
has additional oversight in the area of financial
risks and controls. The major risks identified by
the businesses and functions are systematically
addressed through mitigating actions on
a continuing basis. The development and
implementation of risk management policy has
been covered in the Management Discussion
and Analysis, which forms part of this report.
19. Vigil Mechanism
The Company has a Whistle Blower Policy and
has established the necessary vigil mechanism
for directors and employees in conformation
with Section 177(9) of the Act and Regulation
22 of SEBI Listing Regulations, to report
concerns about unethical behavior. This Policy is
available on the Company’s website at
https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP.
20. Particulars of loans, guarantees and
investments
The particulars of loans, guarantees and
investments as per Section 186 of the Act
by the Company, have been disclosed in the
financial statements.

21. Transactions with related parties
None of the transactions with related parties
fall under the scope of Section 188(1) of the
Act. Accordingly, the disclosure of related party
transactions as required under Section
134(3)(h) of the Act in Form AOC-2 is not
applicable to the Company for FY 2022 and
hence does not form part of this report.
Pursuant to SEBI Listing Regulations, the
resolution for seeking approval of the
shareholders on material related party
transactions is being placed at the AGM.
22. Annual Return
Pursuant to Section 92(3) read with Section
134(3)(a) of the Act, the Annual Return
as on March 31, 2022 is available on the
Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/annualreturn-21-22.
23. Particulars of employees
The information under Section 197 of the
Act read with Rule 5 of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
Personnel) Rules, 2014:
a.

The ratio of the remuneration of each
director to the median remuneration of the
Directors' Report | 88

employees of the Company and percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary in the financial year:
Name

Ratio to median
remuneration

% increase in
remuneration in the
financial year

		##

Appointed as Chief Financial Officer
w.e.f. May 1, 2021.

		###

Relinquished the office of Chief
Financial Officer w.e.f. April 30, 2021.

		@

Appointed as Company Secretary and
Compliance Officer w.e.f. November 1,
2021.

		@@

Relinquished the office of Company
Secretary and Compliance Officer w.e.f.
October 31, 2021

		

Since the remuneration is only for part
of the year, the percentage increase in
remuneration is not comparable and
hence, not stated.

Non-executive Directors:
N Chandrasekaran*
O P Bhatt
Aarthi Subramanian#

-

-

38.49

8.70

-

-

Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla

34.64

21.62

Hanne Sorensen

34.64

21.62

Keki Mistry

38.49

25.00

Don Callahan

34.64

12.50

Rajesh Gopinathan

396.67

26.52

N Ganapathy Subramaniam

318.52

28.47

Samir Seksaria##

-

$

V Ramakrishnan###

-

$

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde@

-

$

Rajendra Moholkar@@

-

$

Executive Directors:

b.

The percentage increase in the median
remuneration of employees in the financial
year is 4.24 percent

c.

The number of permanent employees on
the rolls of Company are 5,92,195

d.

The average annual increase was in the
range of 5-8 percent in India. However,
during the course of the year, the total
increase is approximately 10.5 percent,
after accounting for promotions and other
event based compensation revisions.
Employees outside India received a wage
increase varying from 1.5 to 6 percent.

Chief Financial Officer

Company Secretary

		

*

		#

As a policy, N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from receiving commission from the
Company and hence not stated.
In line with the internal guidelines of the Company, no payment is made towards commission to the
Non-Executive Directors of the Company, who are in full time employment with any other Tata
Company and hence not stated.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

$

Directors' Report | 89

The increase in remuneration is in line
with the market trends in the respective
countries. In order to ensure that
remuneration reflects the Company’s
performance, the performance pay is also
linked to organization performance and
individual utilization in addition to individual
performance.
		

Increase in the managerial remuneration
for the year was 27.38 percent.

e.

The Company affirms that the
remuneration is as per the remuneration
policy of the Company.

f.

The statement containing names of top
ten employees in terms of remuneration
drawn and the particulars of employees
as required under Section 197(12) of
the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3)
of the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
Rules, 2014, is provided in a separate
annexure forming part of this report.

		

Further, the report and the accounts are
being sent to the Members excluding the
aforesaid annexure. In terms of Section
136 of the Act, the said annexure is open
for inspection and any Member interested
in obtaining a copy of the same may write
to the Company Secretary.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

24. Integrated Report
The Company, has voluntarily provided
Integrated Report, which encompasses both
financial and non-financial information to
enable the Members to take well informed
decisions and have a better understanding of
the Company’s long term perspective. The
Report also touches upon aspects such as
organisation’s strategy, governance framework,
performance and prospects of value creation
based on the six forms of capital viz. financial
capital, manufactured capital, intellectual capital,
human capital, social and relationship capital and
natural capital.
25. Disclosure requirements
As per SEBI Listing Regulations, the Corporate
Governance Report with the Auditors’
Certificate thereon, and the integrated
Management Discussion and Analysis, the
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
(“BRSR”) form part of the Director’s Report.
The Company has provided BRSR, in lieu of
the Business Responsibility Report which
indicates the Company’s performance against
the principles of the ‘National Guidelines on
Responsible Business Conduct’. This would
enable the Members to have an insight into

environmental, social and governance initiatives
of the Company.
The Company has devised proper systems to
ensure compliance with the provisions of all
applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the
Institute of Company Secretaries of India and
that such systems are adequate and operating
effectively.
26. Deposits from public
The Company has not accepted any deposits
from public and as such, no amount on account
of principal or interest on deposits from public
was outstanding as on the date of the balance
sheet.
27. Conservation of energy, technology
absorption, foreign exchange earnings and
outgo
Conservation of energy
The Company is committed towards
conservation of energy and climate action which
is reaffirmed in its Environmental Sustainability
Policy (https://on.tcs.com/EnvironmentalSustainability).

Directors' Report | 90

Through the reporting year, initiatives were
aligned towards achieving these targets. Having
already switched over to LED lights across
all offices in 2020, this year the focus was on
cooling system and UPS efficiencies. Offices
with old/inefficient air conditioners were
upgraded to energy efficient and energy star
rated cooling systems. Initiatives to optimize
the UPS load included UPS resizing and
switch over to modular UPS. The data center
PUE of 1.65 was achieved for the corporate
data centers at Yantra Park and Siruseri. The
Company is also incorporating next generation
green data center practices with futuristic and
modular technologies like modular UPS, cold
aisle containment, real time monitoring of
temperature and energy consumption.
The Company continued to augment the roof
top solar photo voltaic installations this year
as well taking the total installed capacity to
10.2 MWp contributing to 3.76 percent of
total electricity use in the reporting year. The
Company increased the renewable energy
procurement through third party power
purchase agreement (PPA) for solar energy at
TCS Siruseri campus and switch over to green
tariff for its operations in the states of Karnataka
and Maharashtra. This resulted in an increase in
the renewable energy use to 37.2 percent of
total electricity use.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

The Company has become carbon neutral
across Scope 1 and Scope 2 for its operations in
Asia Pacific (APAC), Europe and North America
(NA) for this reporting year. These efforts
helped achieve a year-on-year reduction in
absolute carbon footprint reduction (across
Scope 1 and Scope 2) across TCS’ global
operations by 25 percent. The electricity use
across India operations reduced by 6.54 percent
y-o-y. For global operations, there is an increase
in total electricity use (y-o-y) by approx.
2.7 percent due to increased reporting
boundary to include operations in NA, APAC,
Europe and Middle East and Africa (MEA)
regions.
Continued focus on the above initiatives will
enable steer the Company towards achieving
its carbon target to reduce its absolute
Scope 1 + Scope 2 carbon footprint by 70
percent by 2025 over the baseline on 2016 and
also to become net zero by 2030.
Technology absorption, adaption and
innovation
Research & Development (R&D): Specific
areas in which R&D was carried out by the
Company
FY 2022 marked the beginning of TCS’ fifth
decade as a research-focused organization.

Activities that strengthened both brands related
to R&D are specified here. TCS Research as a
brand, highlights the Company’s ability to invent
with impact, and explore futuristic ideas with
the wider academic ecosystem. The TCS PaceTM
brand stands for its innovation capability, by
which intellectual content is made tangible and
experiential to customers.
TCS continues to expand its foundational
research in computing and its intersection
with the sciences. New areas of research
include sensing, digital twins for social systems,
efficient and robust AI and deep learning,
quantum computing and generative design
for materials, manufacturing and life sciences.
Work began with cross-functional teams on
strategic initiatives such as Future of Software
Development and Sustainability. Research on
other strategic initiatives continued.
More of TCS’ IP based products and platforms
were made available natively on hyperscaler
cloud platforms. While TCS BaNCS™ suite in
financial services, TCS Optumera™ and TCS
Omnistore™ in retail, TCS HOBS™ in telecom
and TCS ADD™ in life sciences were made
available on AWS last year, TCS AvianaTM for
travel customers followed suit this year. TCS’
Cognitive Plant Operations Adviser (CPOA),
an amalgamation of IP-based solutions for
Directors' Report | 91

manufacturing has also been developed
using Microsoft Azure Cloud capabilities.
TCS MasterCraftTM is now on the Microsoft
Azure Marketplace. TCS Clever EnergyTM, TCS
EnvirozoneTM were launched on Microsoft’s
Azure IoT platform to help organizations gain
insights into energy usage and reduce waste
and emissions. Many of these products and
platforms are available on Google Cloud as well.
TCS also has a rich suite of cloud accelerators
rendered on the Google Cloud Garages
launched at TCS Pace Ports.
The best of TCS’ innovation assets, capabilities,
and practices were brought to customers
through experiential initiatives. The Company’s
Pace Ports, spaces that connect customers to all
of TCS’ organizational capabilities in innovation,
technology and industry expertise, hosted
several events and workshops. TCS Pace Ports
are active across geographies. The Company
launched a Pace PortTM in Amsterdam formally
this year to bring TCS’ ecosystem of partners
from academia, government institutions,
start-ups and technology providers to
co-innovate with European customers with a
focus on sustainability.
‘Powered by Pace’ centres were launched across
the globe to help customers leverage
co-innovation and accelerate digital
transformation. These include the digital
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

innovation lab at the Letterkenny Global
Delivery Centre, Ireland; Digital Garage
Innovation Centre at Sydney; and the Allwomen Innovation Lab at Riyadh. TCS’ Agile
Innovation Cloud (AIC) was adopted by multiple
customers this year.
TCS Co-Innovation Network (TCS COINTM)
expanded its global footprint with more than 55
active academic partnerships and over 2,600
start-up partners in the network.
In keeping with the Company’s commitment
to social responsibility and sustainability,
TCS Research its continued focus on energy,
circularity, and development related projects.
Several other initiatives were undertaken:
TCS and Glasgow University launched UK
Sustainathon 2021 to empower UK university
students to tackle sustainability challenges
using digital technologies, the winners of which
showcased their idea at the TCS Innovation
Forum 2021 in UK. The second edition of TCS
Sustainathon ASEAN 2021 expanded beyond
Singapore to Malaysia and Philippines. It focused
on ‘Reimagining Education.’ Sustainathon - The
Balancing Act, a Europe-wide sustainathon in
alignment with Conference of Parties 26 (COP
26) and the European Green Deal was also
launched in FY 2022.

In line with the Company’s belief of building
greater futures through innovation and
collective knowledge, R&I continued to
combine know-how and innovation mindset
across the organization by regularly organizing
crowdsourcing initiatives. TCS Innovista
2022, attracted 11,970 entries across the
organization. TCS secured 4 wins at TATA
Innovista 2021. Innovation Champions
continued to be active across several accounts
facilitating TCS customers’ growth and
transformation journeys. TCS Innovation Forum
2021 with sustainability as a theme was held in
seven geographies; many Innovation Days were
held with customers across industries.
The ninth season of TCS CodeVita, won the
Guinness World RecordsTM title for the world’s
largest computer programming competition
with 1,36,054 participants from 34 countries.
Intellectual property of TCS R&I grew with more
than 240 publications presented in
top-tier conferences or published in journals.
The Company continued to contribute to
standards bodies especially in ISO SC7 and
SC42 on Software and Systems Engineering
and Artificial Intelligence, respectively. As of
March 31, 2022, 6,583 patents have been filed
Directors' Report | 92

and 2,287 granted cumulatively by the Company. TCS won CII’s Industrial
Intellectual Property Awards 2021 for the Best Patents Portfolio in the Large
Enterprises (Information and Communications Technology and Services)
category, for the fifth consecutive year. TCS also won the ASSOCHAM IP
Excellence Award 2021 for the best IP In-House Team of the Year.
Future course of action:
TCS will continue to scale the Patents, Products and Platforms strategy
across the organization, harnessing the collective knowledge and creativity of
internal teams and of partners to deliver innovative solutions in support of the
Company’s pursuit of growth and transformation opportunities and
longer-term sustainability goals.
Expenditure on R&D:
TCS research and innovation centres are located in India and other parts
of the world. These research centres in India, as certified by Department
of Scientific & Industrial Research (DSIR), function from Pune, Chennai,
Bengaluru, Delhi- NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai.

Expenditure incurred in the R&D centers and innovation centers of TCS
during FY 2022 and FY 2021 are given below:
(` crore)
Expenditure on R&D and
innovation
a. Capital
b. Recurring
c. Total R&D expenditure
(a+b)
d. Innovation center
expenditure
e. Total R&D and innovation
expenditure (c+d)
f. R&D and innovation
expenditure as a percentage
of total turnover

Standalone
FY 2022 FY 2021
-*
1
337
298
337
299

Consolidated
FY 2022 FY 2021
-*
1
341
302
341
303

1,841

1,546

1,901

1,614

2,178

1,845

2,242

1,917

1.4%

1.4%

1.2%

1.2%

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo
Export revenue constituted 94.0 percent of the total standalone revenue in
FY 2022 (94.0 percent in FY 2021).
(` crore)
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo
FY 2022
FY 2021
a. Foreign exchange earnings
1,55,240
1,30,720
b. CIF Value of imports
216
241
c. Expenditure in foreign currency
63,689
54,800

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Directors' Report | 93

28. Acknowledgements
The Directors thank the Company’s employees, customers, vendors, investors
and academic partners for their continuous support. The Directors also
thank the Government of India, Governments of various states in India,
Governments of various countries and concerned Government departments
and agencies for their co-operation.
The Directors regret the loss of lives due to COVID-19 pandemic and are
deeply grateful and have immense respect for every person who risked his life
and safety to fight this pandemic.
The Directors appreciate and value the contribution made by every member
of the TCS family.
On behalf of the Board of Directors

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

N Chandrasekaran
Chairman
DIN No. 00121863

Directors' Report | 94

Annexure I
Annual Report on CSR Activities
1.

Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
The Company believes that all are born with equal potential but not equal opportunity. TCS’ vision is to empower people and communities, building self-reliance through
purpose and technology while ensuring the values of fairness, equity and respect for human rights. The Company remains steadfast in its mission to connect people to
opportunities in the digital economy while building equitable, inclusive pathways for all – especially women, youth and marginalized groups.
TCS, through various CSR initiatives and programs across globe, continues to invest in addressing the most pressing needs of the community. The primary focus areas
are education, skilling, employment and entrepreneurship with a focus on bridging the opportunity gap for people and communities. The Company invests in basic health
and wellness, water sanitation and hygiene, conservation and disaster relief efforts to support the basic needs of communities across the globe.
By applying its resources towards communities that need it the most, TCS ensures equitable access. The Company’s CSR strategy incorporates an inclusive approach
into the design of every program. In India this is aligned to its support of the Government of India’s Affirmative Action Policy and the Tata Group’s Affirmative Action
Program.
With a view to grow the capacity of grassroot organizations and the knowledge base of community issues, TCS also invests in strategic partnerships, research and
insights and in providing pro-bono technology consulting.
To achieve transformational impact, TCS leverages the best of the Company’s capabilities – its intellectual, technology, human and financial capital. TCS aims to create
innovative solutions to societal challenges applying its contextual knowledge while harnessing the expertise of a diverse network of leaders; execute and scale programs
using its technology capabilities; engage its large employee base to volunteer their time, skills and expertise as last-mile connectors and make impact investments in
large scale, sustainable, multi-year programs that empower communities.
The projects undertaken are within the broad framework of Schedule VII to the Act. Details of the CSR policy and projects or programs undertaken by the Company are
available on links given below:
https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy
https://www.tcs.com/corporate-social-responsibility

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Directors' Report | 95

2.

Composition of the CSR committee:
Sr.
No.

3.

Name of Director

Designation / Nature of Directorship

Number of meetings of CSR
Number of meetings of CSR
Committee held during the year Committee attended during the year

1

N Chandrasekaran

Chairman, Non-independent, Non-Executive Director

3

3

2

O P Bhatt

Member, Independent, Non-Executive Director

3

3

3

N Ganapathy Subramaniam

Member, Non-Independent, Executive Director

3

3

Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the Company
Composition of the CSR committee shared above and is available on the Company’s website at https://www.tcs.com/corporate-governance.
CSR policy - https://www.tcs.com/content/dam/tcs/pdf/CSR/TCS_CSR_Policy.pdf
CSR projects - https://www.tcs.com/corporate-social-responsibility

4.

Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility
Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report).
TCS has been conducting internal impact assessments to monitor and evaluate its strategic CSR programs. The Company takes cognizance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and has initiated impact assessment of one CSR project (Tata Translational Cancer Research Center)
through an independent agency. The report is available on the Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/IAR.

5.

Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and
amount required for set off for the financial year, if any
(` crore)
Sr. No.

Financial Year

1

2020-21

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Amount available for set off from preceding financial years

Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any
11

NIL

Directors' Report | 96

6.

Average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5) of the Act: `35,806 crore

7.

(a) Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5) of the Act: `716 crore
(b) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years : NIL
(c) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any : NIL
(d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c) : `716 crore

8.

(a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount Spent for the
Financial Year
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR Account
as per Section 135(6) of the Act
Amount
Date of transfer
727
NIL
-

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

(` crore)
Amount Unspent
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as per second
proviso to Section 135(5) of the Act
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
NIL
-

Directors' Report | 97

(b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
(1)
Sr.
No.

1

2

(2)
Name of the
Project

Tata Translational
Cancer Research
Center
BridgeIT - DF
(Project 1)

(5)
Location of the project

(3)
Item from
the list of
activities in
Schedule
VII to the
Act
(i)

(4)
Local area
(Yes/No)

Yes

West Bengal Kolkata

6 years

54

(ii)

No

Mizoram,
Karnataka

Aizawl,
Raichur

5 years

1

-*

-

No

Development
Focus

CSR00002377

5 years
Raichur,
Yadgir,
Gajapati
and
Rayagada
Lohardaga 5 years
and Latehar

3

-*

-

No

Development
Focus

CSR00002377

1

-*

-

No

Humana
People to
People India

CSR00000929

State

3

BridgeIT - DF
(Project 2)

(ii)

Yes

Karnataka,
Odisha

4

BridgeIT – Humana

(ii)

No

Jharkhand

TOTAL

(6)
Project
duration

(` crore)

District

(7)
Amount
allocated for
the project

(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
Amount Amount transferred
Mode of Implementation Mode of
to Unspent CSR Implementation Through Implementing Agency
spent
Account for the
in the
- Direct
Name
CSR
project as per
current
(Yes/No)
registration
Section 135(6)
financial
number
year
of the Act
7
No
Tata Medical CSR00002920
Center Trust

7

		*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Directors' Report | 98

(c) Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

Sr.
No.

Name of the Project

Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act

Local area
(Yes/ No)

Location of the project

Amount
spent for
the project
(` crore)

Mode of
implementation
- Direct
(Yes/No)

Mode of implementation - Through
implementing agency

(i), (ii), (iv), (v)

Yes

PAN India

(i)

No

Maharashtra,
Kerala,
Andhra Pradesh,
Uttar Pradesh

1

Contribution for Schedule VII
activities

2

Healthcare projects

State / Union Territories

District

Ahmedanagar,
Trissur, Pathanamthitta,
Tirupati,
Ayodhya

Name

CSR registration
number
CSR00002960

680

No

TCS
Foundation

15

Yes

-

-

3

Education and skill building projects

(ii)

Yes

PAN India

10

Yes

-

-

4

Employability training for rural
youth

(ii), (iii)

Yes

PAN India

4

Yes

-

-

5

Hospital Management System at
Cancer Institute and Tata Medical
Centre

(i)

Yes

Tamil Nadu, West Bengal

Chennai, Kolkata

2

Yes

-

-

6

Adult Literacy Program support

(ii)

Yes

Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu &
Kashmir, Jharkhand, Maharashtra,
Telangana, West Bengal

Ahmedabad, Palwal, Kathua, Latehar, Lohardaga, Mumbai,
Hyderabad, Rangareddy, South 24 Parganas, Kolkata, West
Midnapore

1

Yes

-

-

7

Jal Jeevan Mission

(i)

Yes

Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand,
Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Jharkhand,
Gujarat, Assam, Tripura, Ladakh,
Karnakata, Uttar Pradesh and
Andhra Pradesh

Shimla, Tehri Grehwal, Dehradun, Nashik, Sirohi, Hazaribag,
Dahod, Kamrup rural and Kamrup urban, Dhalai, Tripura
West, Leh, Yadgir, Lucknow, Krishna

1

Yes#

Tata Community
Initiatives Trust

CSR00002739

8

Community transformation projects

(ii) (iii)

Yes

PAN India

-*

Yes

-

-

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
#Jal Jeevan Mission project is being jointly implemented with Tata Community Initiatives Trust, CSR reg. no. - CSR00002739

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Directors' Report | 99

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

Sr.
No.

Name of the Project

Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act

Local area
(Yes/ No)

Location of the project

Amount
spent for
the project
(` crore)

Mode of
implementation
- Direct
(Yes/No)

Mode of implementation - Through
implementing agency

State / Union Territories

District

Name

CSR registration
number

9

goIT - Student Digital Innovation
Program

(ii)

Yes

Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jammu
& Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala,
Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu,
West Bengal, Ladakh

Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Anantapur, Kadapa, Ahmedabad,
Dahod, Bharuch, Surat, Jammu, Tumkur, Chikkaballapur,
Kolar, Bangalore, Mandya , Shivamogga, Ramanagara
,Dakshina Kannada, Raichur, Ernakulum, Wayanad, Palakkad,
Kochi, Thane, Amravati, Nagpur, Solapur, Wardha, Akola,
Yavatmal, Sangli, Pune, Osmanabad, Chandrapur, Anugul,
Balasore, Bargarh, Bolangir, Boudh, Cuttack, Deogarh,
Dhenkanal, Gajapati, Ganjam, Jajapur, Jharsuguda,
Kalahandi, Kendrapada, Keunjhar, Khordha, Koraput,
Malkangiri, Mayurbhanj, Nabarangpur, Nayagarh, Nuapada,
Phulbani, Puri, Rayagada, Sambalpur, Sonepur, Sundargarh,
Kancheepuram, Kolkata,Purulia, Leh

-*

Yes

-

-

10

Archaeometallurgical insights on
ancient excavations

(v)

Yes

Tamil Nadu

Keeladi, Kodumanal, Adichanallur

-*

No

National Institute
of Advanced
Studies

CSR00007662

11

IMF - Computational Thining
Program

(ii)

Yes

Andhra Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir,
Ladakh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil
Nadu, Uttarakhand, West Bengal,
Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Goa,
Kerala

Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur, Krishna, Kurnool, Nellore,
Prakasam, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, West Godavari,
Anantapur, Kadapa, Visakhapatnam, Jammu, Poonch,
Kupwara, Leh, Thane, Amravati, Nagpur, Ahmadnagar,
Solapur, Wardha, Raigarh, Akola, Yavatmal, Sangli,
Amritsar, Chennai, Almora, Dehradun, Bankura, Mysore,
Tumkur, Chikkamagalore, Chikmagaluru, Chikkaballapur,
Kolar, Bangalore, Mandya, Ramnagar, Shivamogga, Kolar,
Ramanagara, Dakshina Kannada, Neemuch, North Goa,
South Goa, Ernakulum, Kottayam, Alappuzha

-*

Yes

-

-

12

Infrastructure support to Hospital

(i)

Yes

Maharashtra

Mumbai

-*

No

Society for
Rehabilitation of
Crippled Children

CSR00003225

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Directors' Report | 100

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

Sr.
No.

Name of the Project

Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act

Local area
(Yes/ No)

Location of the project

Amount
spent for
the project
(` crore)

Mode of
implementation
- Direct
(Yes/No)

Mode of implementation - Through
implementing agency

State / Union Territories

13

Scholarship program

(ii)

Yes

Madhya
Pradesh

14

Digital Nerve Centre

(i)

Yes

PAN India

District
Chhindwara

TOTAL

Name

CSR registration
number

-*

No

NIIT
Foundation

CSR00000621

-*

Yes

-

-

713

		*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
(d) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: `7 crore
(e) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NIL
(f)

Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e) : `727 crore

(g) Excess amount for set off, if any
Sr. No.

(` crore)
Particulars

Amount

(i)

Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5) of the Act

716

(ii)

Total amount spent for the Financial Year

727

(iii)

Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]

11

(iv)

Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, if any

NIL

(v)

Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]

11

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Directors' Report | 101

9.

(a) Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
Sr.
No.

Preceding
Financial Year

Amount transferred to
Unspent CSR Account under
Section 135 (6) of the Act

(` crore)

Amount spent in the
reporting Financial
Year

Amount transferred to any fund specified under
Schedule VII as per Section 135(6) of the Act,
if any
Name of the Fund

1

-

NIL

-

Amount

-

Amount remaining to
be spent in succeeding
financial years

Date of transfer

NIL

-

-

(b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):

(` crore)

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

Sr.
No.

Project ID

Name of the Project

Financial Year in
which the project
was commenced

Project
duration

Total amount
allocated for the
project

Amount spent on the
project in the reporting
Financial Year

Cumulative amount
spent at the end of
reporting Financial Year

Status of the project
- Completed /
Ongoing

1

TTCRC

Tata Translational Cancer
Research Centre

FY 2016

6 years

54

7

54

Completed

2

BridgeIT

BridgeIT - DF (Project 1)

FY 2018

5 years

1

-*

1

Ongoing

3

BridgeIT - DF (Project 2)

FY 2020

5 years

3

-*

2

Ongoing

4

BridgeIT - Humana

FY 2020

5 years

1

-*

1

Ongoing

5

BridgeIT - CADAM (Project 1)

FY 2018

5 years

3

-*

2

Ongoing

BridgeIT - CADAM (Project 2)

FY 2020

5 years

6

-*

2

Ongoing

Setting up of IIIT at Guwahati,
Vadodara, Srirangam, Ranchi
and Nagpur in PPP mode

FY 2014

Open
ended

29

-

16

Ongoing

6
7

IIIT

TOTAL

7

		*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Directors' Report | 102

10. In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR spent in the financial year (assetwise details)
(a) Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s) : None
(b) Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset : NIL
(c) Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address, etc. : Not Applicable
(d) Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the capital asset) : Not Applicable
11. Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two percent of the average net profit as per Section 135(5) of the Act: Not Applicable
Rajesh Gopinathan
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
DIN No. 06365813

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

N Chandrasekaran
Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
DIN No. 00121863

Directors' Report | 103

Annexure II

Form No. MR-3
Secretarial Audit Report
for the financial year ended March 31, 2022

[Pursuant to section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and
the adherence to good corporate practices by Tata
Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter called
“the Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted
in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis
for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books,
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and
other records maintained by the Company, to the
extent the information provided by the Company, its
officers, agents and authorised representatives during
the conduct of secretarial audit, the explanations
and clarifications given to us and the representations
made by the Management and considering the
relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board of India
warranted due to the spread of the COVID-19
pandemic, we hereby report that in our opinion, the
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Company has during the audit period covering the
financial year ended on March 31, 2022, generally
complied with the statutory provisions listed
hereunder and also that the Company has proper
Board processes and compliance mechanism in place
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the
reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books,
forms and returns filed and other records made
available to us and maintained by the Company
for the financial year ended on March 31, 2022
according to the applicable provisions of:
(i)

The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the
rules made thereunder;

(ii)

The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;

(iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations
and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and
the rules and regulations made thereunder

to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment,
Overseas Direct Investment and External
Commercial Borrowings;
(v)

The following Regulations and Guidelines
prescribed under the Securities and Exchange
Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):
(a) The Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations,
2015;
(c) The Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and
amendments from time to time;
(d) The Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Share Based Employee Benefits)
Regulations, 2014 and The Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Share Based
Directors' Report | 104

Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity)
Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to the
Company during the audit period)
(e) The Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)
Regulations, 2008 and The Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing
of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations,
2021; (Not applicable to the Company
during the audit period)
(f)

The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the
Companies Act and dealing with client;
(Not applicable to the Company during the
audit period)

(g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations,
2009 and The Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares)
Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to the
Company during the audit period) and
(h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
(vi) Other laws applicable specifically to the
Company namely:Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

a)

Information Technology Act, 2000 and the
rules made thereunder;

b)

Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 and the
rules made thereunder;

c)

Software Technology Parks of India rules
and regulations

d)

The Indian Copyright Act, 1957

e)

The Patents Act, 1970

f)

The Trade Marks Act, 1999

We have also examined compliance with the
applicable clauses of the following:
(i)

Secretarial Standards issued by The
Institute of Company Secretaries of
India with respect to board and general
meetings.

(ii)

The Listing Agreements entered into by the
Company with National Stock Exchange of
India Limited and BSE Limited read with the
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.

During the period under review, the Company has
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules,
Regulations, Guidelines, standards etc. mentioned
above.

We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly
constituted with proper balance of Executive
Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent
Directors. There were no changes in the composition
of the Board of Directors that took place during
the period under review. The re-appointment of
Mr. Rajesh Gopinathan as Chief Executive Officer
& Managing Director and Mr. N. Ganapathy
Subramaniam as Chief Operating Officer & Executive
Director was carried out in compliance with the
provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to
schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed
notes on agenda were sent at least seven days in
advance for meetings other than those held at
shorter notice, and a system exists for seeking and
obtaining further information and clarifications
on the agenda items before the meeting and for
meaningful participation at the meeting.
As per the minutes, decisions at the Board Meetings
were taken unanimously.
We further report that there are adequate systems
and processes in the Company commensurate with
the size and operations of the Company to monitor
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules,
regulations and guidelines etc.

Directors' Report | 105

We further report that during the audit period the
following events occurred which had bearing on the
Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred
laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards etc.
The Company has completed buyback of
4,00,00,000 (four crores) fully paid-up equity
shares of face value of `1 (Rupee One) each (“Equity
Shares”), on a proportionate basis, through the
Tender Offer route through the Stock Exchange
mechanism as prescribed under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Buy-back of Securities)
Regulations, 2018, at a price of `4,500 (Rupees four
thousand five hundred only) per Equity Share.
For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries

‘Annexure A’
To,
The Members
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
Our report of even date is to be read along with this
letter.
1.

2.

P. N. Parikh
Partner
FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228
Place: Mumbai
UDIN: F000327D000062686
Date: April 11, 2022
PR No.: 1129/2021
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date
which is annexed as Annexure A and Forms an integral
part of this report.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

3.

Maintenance of secretarial record is the
responsibility of the management of the
Company. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these secretarial records based on
our audit.
We have followed the audit practices and
process as were appropriate to obtain
reasonable assurance about the correctness
of the contents of the secretarial records. The
verification was done on test basis to ensure
that correct facts are reflected in secretarial
records. We believe that the process and
practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
We have not verified the correctness and
appropriateness of financial records and Books
of Accounts of the Company.

4.

Where ever required, we have obtained
the Management Representation about the
Compliance of laws, rules and regulations and
happening of events etc.

5.

The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate
and other applicable laws, rules, regulations,
standards is the responsibility of management.
Our examination was limited to the verification
of procedure on test basis.

6.

The Secretarial Audit report is neither an
assurance as to the future viability of the
Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness
with which the management has conducted the
affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries

P. N. Parikh
Partner
FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228
Place: Mumbai
UDIN: F000327D000062686
Date: April 11, 2022
PR No.: 1129/2021

Directors' Report | 106

Management
Discussion and
Analysis

Overview of the Industry
The global economy recovered strongly in
CY 2021 even as new variants of the COVID-19
virus fueled additional waves of the pandemic. Robust
policy support in advanced economies, availability
of vaccines and relaxation of pandemic restrictions
helped economies bounce back, collectively
expanding world output by an estimated 6.1%1.

globally, with a market share of 2.3%, and has
outperformed the market, growing significantly
higher than market growth over the last decade.
Global Market for IT and BPM Services $ Bn
USD Billion
1600
800

1,110

1.4x

795

400
200

Global technology spending grew strongly in
2021 to $1.7 trillion2. The primary drivers were
accelerated investments in digital transformation and
cloud adoption in response to changed consumer
behaviors and the need for greater operational
resilience. Additionally, there was increased
outsourcing by enterprises looking to free up
financial as well as human resources to execute their
transformation programs. A severe talent scarcity
added to the outsourcing imperative. IT services
grew 6.2% YoY, crossing $899 billion while BPM
grew nearly 5% to reach $211 billion.
The global IT services industry continues to be
a highly fragmented one, with even the largest
provider having a mid-single digit market share.
TCS is among the largest IT services providers
1
2

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

100
50
10

25.7

2.5x

10.2

0

TCS Revenue $ Bn
FY2012

FY2022

This may be attributed to market share gains
resulting from TCS’ customer-centric strategy
and organization structure, a very stable
management team, focused investments in
building superior capabilities, better execution
resulting greater customer satisfaction, and steadily
expanding participation in customers’ growth and
transformation spends.

World Economic Outlook, IMF, April 2022
Nasscom Strategic Review Report 2022

Management Discussion and Analysis | 107

TCS’ Business
An Overview
TCS is an IT services, consulting and business
solutions organization partnering many of the
world’s largest businesses in their transformational
journeys for the last 54 years. It has a global
presence, deep domain expertise in multiple industry
verticals and a complete portfolio of offerings –
grouped under consulting and service integration,
application services, digital transformation services,
cloud services, engineering services, cognitive
business operations, and products and platforms –
targeting every C-suite stakeholder.
The company leverages all these and its deep
contextual knowledge of its customers’ businesses
to craft unique, high quality, high impact solutions
designed to deliver differentiated business outcomes.
These solutions are delivered using its Secure
Borderless Workspaces™ (SBWS™) operating
model which enables a highly distributed, Location
Independent Agile™ delivery.
TCS geographic footprint covers North America,
Latin America, the United Kingdom, Continental
Europe, Asia-Pacific, India, and Middle-East and
Africa.
TCS considers industry verticals as its primary
go-to-market business segments. The key vertical
clusters are: Banking, Financial Services and
Insurance (BFSI), Retail and Consumer Business,
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Communications, Media and Technology (CMT),
Manufacturing, Life Sciences and Healthcare and
Others. The last category includes Energy,
Resources and Utilities, Public Services and others.
Strategy for Sustainable Growth3
Customer-centricity is at the heart of TCS’
strategy, organization structure and investment
decisions. TCS’ customer-centric worldview helps
spot trends early, embrace business opportunities
by making the right investments and mitigating
risks while discharging its social and environmental
responsibilities.
TCS has been broadening and deepening customer
relationships by continually looking for new
opportunities and newer areas in their businesses
to add value, proactively investing in building newer
capabilities, reskilling its workforce and launching
newer services, solutions, products and platforms to
address those opportunities.
In the last few years, the company has been using
its investments in research and innovation, its
intellectual property and deep contextual knowledge
of the customer’s business and technology landscape
to proactively pitch ideas and solutions designed
to improve the client’s topline and help drive
competitive differentiation.
These growth and transformation (G&T)
engagements are higher value engagements catering
3

GRI 2-22

to the needs of a broader set of stakeholders in
the client organization, and is helping drive a steady
increase in the scope and scale of services consumed
year after year, and expand TCS’ share of wallet, as
evidenced by the client metrics.
At an aggregate level, this strategy has resulted in
deep and enduring customer relationships, a vibrant
and engaged workforce, industry-leading profitability,
a steady expansion of the addressable market, and
a proven track record in delivering longer term
stakeholder value.
Enabling Investments
TCS pioneered4 the use of the word ‘digital’ to
describe the new family of technologies that
emerged in the last decade. Quick to recognize the
potential of cloud, the company made investments
ahead of time in launching new platform-based
business models as far back as in 20095, reskilling
the workforce, research and innovation, building
collaborative workspaces and innovation centers,
intellectual property, and alliances and partnerships.
Those early investments have given TCS a head start
in participating in its customers’ G&T journeys.
Over the last 3 years, TCS has been investing in a
network of Pace Ports, co-innovation hubs in all
its major markets, to provide a physical space for
4
5

Ref AR FY 2012, MD&A, Pages 25, 29
Ref AR FY 2010, Letter from CEO, Page 7
Management Discussion and Analysis | 108

TCS teams to engage with clients in ideation, rapid
prototyping and agile development of innovative
ideas. These hubs also house researchers and
members of TCS’ extended innovation ecosystem
of start-ups and academia. Adding to the Pace Ports
in Tokyo, New York, Pittsburgh and Toronto, the
company inaugurated the Pace Port at Amsterdam
in May 2021, and a Digital Garage in Sydney in
February 2022.
TCS continued to invest in intellectual property,
launching new variants within the ignio™ suite and
building newer functionality and features in the TCS
BaNCS™ suite, the Algo Retail suite, the TCS ADD
suite, HOBS, TwinX, MasterCraft and Jile. Across
each of the industry verticals, the relevant business
units launched new service offerings and solutions,
catering to the evolving needs of the market –
such as the ESG Integration solution suite on all
three hyperscaler platforms covering EU taxonomy,
Sustainable IT, Green Mortgage, Carbon Bank and
Cal-C (Carbon Calculator).
The company launched Cyber Defense Suite – a
comprehensive suite of modular, quickly adoptable
cyber security services on a single platform – to
provide enterprises with a unified 360-degree
visibility and predictive intelligence to proactively
defend and respond against evolving risks.
TCS’ dedicated practice units around AWS,
Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform,
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

launched in FY 2021, offer customers the full
range of transformational and operational services
on the respective hyperscaler stacks, spanning
advisory services, migration, application and data
modernization, including SaaS and enterprise
productivity suites, infrastructure, cyber-security and
edge.
These units have been steadily investing in training,
certifications, credentials and in building solutions
and intellectual property on their respective
hyperscaler stacks. In FY 2022, TCS added TCS
Omnistore, TCS MasterCraft, 5G Edge Suite, TwinX
and its suite of sustainability solutions – namely TCS
Clever Energy, TCS IP2 and TCS Envirozone – to the
list of its software products and solutions available on
the various hyperscaler platforms. TCS also launched
Google Cloud Garages for co-innovation leveraging
analytics and AI on the cloud, at its Pace Ports in
Amsterdam, New York and Tokyo.

relationship stage – to the existing three dimensions
of TCS’ organization structure: geography, industry
vertical and service line.
Customer acquisition will continue to be done by
local sales teams in the various markets. Existing
customers in major markets will continue to be
serviced by the same client partners, but the
governance layer on top has been realigned. Instead
of being governed as vertical-wise business groups,
customers have now been segmented by relationship
stage, and vested with three business groups:


Relationship Incubation Group to manage
new relationships which require a higher level
of hand holding and a differentiated, high touch
delivery;



Enterprise Growth Group to manage
relationships which are in the high growth
phase;

New Organization Structure



TCS rolled out a new, industry-first organization
structure at the end of FY 2022 that further
enhances the company’s customer centricity. The
new model recognizes that customers’ needs vary
and evolve over time as they progress in their
relationship journey with TCS, and enables the
delivery of a curated experience best suited for each
customer’s current stage in that journey. It does
this by adding a fourth dimension – i.e. customer

Business Transformation Group to manage
large and mature relationships.

The company’s primary reporting segments will
continue to be industry verticals and geographic
markets. Existing verticalized governance structures,
the Industry Solution Units (ISUs) and sub-ISUs,
will see their portfolios realigned and rationalized
under these three business groups. Customers in
emerging markets will continue to be serviced by
local country-based organizations.
Management Discussion and Analysis | 109

The sharper customer focus enabled by the new structure and the resultant curated customer experiences are expected to enhance customer intimacy, facilitate crossselling and up-selling, expand share of wallet and prepare the company for the journey ahead.
Strategic Responses to Opportunities and Threats
Opportunity / Threat
Greater interest in using technology to drive
business growth

Accelerated adoption of public cloud

TCS Approach
•

Focused on developing contextual knowledge and
applying that for inside-out transformations.

•

Continued investments in research and innovation,
TCS Pace Ports, and intellectual property.

•

Dedicated practice with domain experts to bring
together TCS’ differentiated capabilities from across
the organization to stitch together comprehensive
solutions.

•

Proactive pitching of solutions to customers’ most
pressing business problems.

•

New brand tagline ‘Building on Belief’ to strengthen
positioning as a growth and transformation partner.

•

Launched dedicated business units with end to end
capabilities on each of the hyperscaler platforms.

•

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Outcomes
•

Expansion of addressable market.

•

Growing share of G&T business adding to growth.

•

Higher quality revenue, lending margin resilience.

•

More deeply embedded in the clients’ business.

•

Engaging with a broader set of buyers in the client
organization.

•

Higher visibility within C-Suites.

•

Strong growth in cloud transformation revenues.

•
Continued investment by each of these units in skills,
•
certifications, credentials, IP and accelerators.

•

Articulated the multi-horizon cloud transformation
framework.

•

Made available TCS products and solutions on public
clouds.

Top tier partner to each of the hyperscalers.
Preferred partner to clients seeking to use cloud
native capabilities to power their growth and
transformation.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 110

Opportunity / Threat
Greater acceptance of as-a-Service platforms

TCS Approach
•

Strengthened alliances and launched new offerings
around the popular and new SaaS products.

•

Helped ISV* clients upgrade their products to launch
new SaaS versions.

•

Partnering with product manufacturers to help
launch innovative as-a-Service offerings using TCS
Bring Things to Life IoT framework.

Outcomes
•

Stronger win-win partnerships.

•

Expansion of addressable market.

•

Strong growth in SaaS sales.

•

Platforms drive stickier relationships, with long term
revenue visibility.

TCS IP:

Operations optimization to fund transformation

•

Launched SaaS versions of in-house product
portfolio; made available on hyperscaler platforms.

•

Used IP portfolio to launch new platforms that
bundle IP and shared services on the cloud.

•

Launched the Machine First™ Delivery Model,
•
embedding automation deep within the enterprise to
drive greater efficiencies.
•
Launched the TCS Cognix™ hyper-automation
suite with pre-built solutions for business and
IT operations transformation.

Operations transformation order book of over $1Bn
from Cognix since its launch.

•

Launched the Secure Borderless Workspaces™
operating model.

•

Ensured business continuity on mission-critical
activities.

•

Announced Vision 25x25, heralding a new hybrid
working model for the longer term.

•

Faster ramp-up of new projects.

•

Implemented ‘talent clouds’, staffing projects using
AI to match skills, regardless of location.

•

More opportunities for employees, based on skills
rather than their location.

•

More flexible working arrangement, that is more
gender inclusive.

•

Pandemic-forced remote working

Reputation as a partner who helps structure selffunding business transformation programs.

* Independent Software Vendor
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management Discussion and Analysis | 111

Talent Management

•

TCS aims to attract, develop, motivate and retain
diverse talent, that is critical for its continued success.
The company’s talent management strategy seeks
to maximize the potential of every employee by
creating a purpose-driven, inclusive, stimulating, and
rewarding work environment, delivering outstanding
employee experience, while fueling business growth.

Employee Health and Wellbeing

In FY 2022, TCS made the highest ever net addition
of 103,546 employees globally, taking the total
employee base to 592,195, with 153 nationalities.
The company crossed a key diversity milestone, with
women in the workforce exceeding 200,000 during
the year. Further, TCS was included in the 2022
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI).
Industry-Leading Initiatives
•

•

TCS Vaccination League: A pioneering and oneof-a-kind initiative to vaccinate employees and
their families across 160 locations in India, in
metros as well as Tier 2/3 cities.

Putting employee safety and wellbeing as a
paramount objective, TCS provided pandemic
assistance and outreach through an enhanced
hospitalization policy, home health care support
and access to covid care centers set up at TCS
facilities in 13 cities. TCS also introduced Emergency
Medical Assistance, an interest free loan to support
hospitalization needs during COVID-19. Over
260,000 wellbeing calls were made to over 48,000
associates and dependents, and nearly 100,000
teleconsultations were provided to ensure proactive
medical and emotional support.

SPEED Feedforward: A pioneering initiative that
takes TCS’ continuous feedback performance
appraisal system to the next level by providing
real time, objective performance data
consolidated from various systems in employee’s
goal sheets.

The TCS Vaccination League benefited 1.2 million
individuals and resulted in over 87% of employees
in India getting fully vaccinated and 95% receiving at
least one dose.

ReBegin: An initiative for experienced women
professionals to reinvent their career, received
over 14,000 applications.

TCS’ talent acquisition strategy is to identify, engage
and hire the best talent with the right competencies
required by the business at the right time to promote

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Talent Acquisition

future business growth. Its technology-enabled,
data-driven, 100% virtual hiring model has enabled
quicker decision making, enhanced agility and scaled
well globally, while retaining the local nuances
required for building a diverse workforce.
The company remains the preferred employer at
leading engineering campuses in India. Its college
recruitment efforts in USA, Canada, Latin America,
China and Hungary have been progressing well,
with very encouraging outcomes. TCS was one
of the largest job creators in IT services in several
major markets, for both freshers and lateral hires.
In the United States, TCS has hired nearly 32,000
employees over the last five years.
In India, over 789,000 students from over 4,200
institutes appeared for TCS’ National Qualifier Tests
from the safety of their homes. TCS was also among
the biggest recruiters at top B-schools and national
institutes.
Key Achievements:
•

TCS CareersNext – TCS’ interactive platform
to enrich the lateral talent pipeline connected
over 51,000 experienced professionals, enabling
them to choose from a wide palette of career
opportunities that matches their passion and
skill set.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 112

•

Highly successful internal referral program
accounted for 30% of total joiners in FY 2022.

•

TCS CodeVita™ – Season 10 of TCS’ flagship
global coding contest saw 305K+ registrations
across 85 countries.

•

HackQuest - Sixth edition of TCS’ ethical
hacking contest saw over 5800 active
participants.

•

TCS Academic Interface Program – Engaged
196,474 students (20,687 outside India) from
1,618 institutes (554 outside India) through
workshops and faculty development programs.
3,844 interns (414 outside India) on boarded in
FY 2022.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
TCS is an equal opportunity employer and has
a well-defined and progressive Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion (DEI) policy embracing all diversity
parameters which includes gender, marital status,
religion, race/caste, colour, age, ancestry, nationality,
language, ethnic origin, socio-economic status,
physical appearance, disability, sexual orientation,
gender identity and/or expression and any other
category protected by applicable law.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

TCS recognizes that a diverse and inclusive
workforce is necessary to drive innovation, foster
creativity, and guide business strategies. This year
TCS reached a significant milestone to become one
of the few organizations in the world employing
more than 200,000 women. The company’s focus
has been to enable better representation of women
through sustained interventions at every level. Key
programs include:
•

•

•

iExcel: TCS’ flagship executive leadership
development program for women after which
participants receive project-based mentorship
from senior leaders and emerging leaders from
different businesses, generations, and cultures.
So far, TCS has had 20 editions of this program,
benefiting 1,290 women leaders.
Project Synthesis: A large-scale initiative with
a multiculturistic approach to teams, clients,
and strategy, to help managers build a deeper
understanding of inner diversity and engage
with the collective community. 8,682 managers
across 37 nationalities have undergone this
program.
The Diversity Maturity Matrix: In-house diversity
measurement tool aims at identifying gaps
and, assesses an organization’s maturity in DEI
provides insights on strategic planning and
action to increase DEI maturity.

•

Allies of Diversity - A program where senior
leadership from client organizations are invited
to share diversity best practices. 24 chapters
across 52 different client organizations engaging
58 senior leaders have been completed.

•

The Workplace Coach: A 75-hour internal
coach certification program enabling
individuals to become coaches. This supports
individuals within the organization towards
ACC certification. So far, 2 cohorts have been
completed, bringing together 212 internal
coaches.

•

Education and Sensitization: TCS has mandatory
online DEI training designed to help associates
understand the key concepts of DEI and
belonging, that 481,000 employees have
completed.

Talent Development
TCS is focused on building and developing enduring
capabilities for a future-ready workforce.
Key initiatives include:
•

TCS Elevate: TCS’ pioneering program linking
learning to career growth and reward covered
over 322,000 employees. Over 13,000
employees were identified as high talent and
received increased compensation.
Management Discussion and Analysis | 113

•

•

Contextual Masters (CMs): With a learning
intensity 15% higher than average, CMs are
groomed into potential G&T leaders. TCS now
has over 50,000 CMs, up 169% over the year.
The community has strong gender diversity,
with 24% women.
India Freshers Training: Over 100,000 trainees
were onboarded during the year, the highest
number ever. In addition to the Virtual
Xplore foundational training program, fresher
training was further intensified with 47 digital
technology certifications, daily webinars, weekly
online assessments, and gamified hackathons.
Over 200 webinars and post-offer engagement
sessions were conducted.

Key Metrics:
•

TCSers invested 121 hours of learning on
average during the year.

•

3.5 million digital competencies acquired; over
171,000 employees deep skilled.

•

Every hour, TCS clocked 8,400 course
completions; 3,000 competencies acquired.

Purpose-driven Workforce Policies
The company’s progressive policies have been
instrumental in creating a vibrant, equitable and
inclusive workplace. In FY 2022, TCS introduced
a Global Guideline on Remote Working to enable
smooth transition into a hybrid work model aligned
with Vision 25x25.
TCS was one of the earliest globally to have a
documented policy on vaccination and a guideline
for quarantine leave. Thirty new HR policies
were created in the areas of health and safety,
compensation and benefits, mobility, leave,
performance management, working hours and
workplace conduct in response to statutory
amendments, business environment and changing
workforce needs.
Other policies of interest like the TCS Global Policy
– Whistle Blower and Statement on Modern Slavery
Act were revisited, along with 118 other policies
to ensure that TCS upholds the highest standards
of transparency and accountability towards all
stakeholders.
Talent Transformation

•

One hands-on learning exercise completed
every 8 seconds.

TCS has multiple initiatives to help employees grow
in their careers:

•

Over 160,000 G&T-ready and 20,000 G&T
leaders groomed across all the segments to take
up G&T opportunities.

Xcelerate - Integrated platform to capture associates’
aspirations and map them to future opportunities.
Over 60% of TCSers have shared their aspirations

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

and career goals in Xcelerate, and mechanisms are
being developed to help them realize their ambitions.
iConnect - Collaborative tool designed to help
employees reach out to senior mentors for guidance
on career paths, and have face to face dialogues
about their role and career.
Mentoring – TCS is promoting a culture of
mentoring and coaching through systemic
intervention programs, with over 37,000 mentors
including over 1,500 Gold and Silver certified
mentors. Over 10,000 leaders are part of the 360O
inclusive feedback process.
Talent Review – TCS’ program to create and sustain
a healthy leadership pipeline. It enables leaders
to share their career aspirations and preferences
of mobility, followed by an assessment of their
leadership attributes.
Exciting Opportunities – Internal platform to publish
niche and critical requirements to the leadership and
high potential communities, thereby facilitating talent
mobility. This embodies the company’s philosophy
of giving the first right of refusal for all leadership
positions to internal candidates, thereby enabling
better leadership development and building strong
organizational loyalty.
Competitive Compensation
TCS’ business model depends on its ability to attract
and retain talent in the highly competitive, global
Management Discussion and Analysis | 114

market for software engineers with graduate or
post-graduate degrees in engineering and with
relevant technical skills.
Compensation levels are merit based, determined
by qualification, experience levels, special skills if
any, and individual performance. Compensation
structures are driven by prevailing practices in each
country that TCS operates in. The merit based,
democratized, transparent talent framework –
Elevate, is designed to establish a tighter linkage
between learning, skill development, career and
reward. The company regularly benchmarks its
compensation plans and benefits with the market to
ensure competitiveness.
At TCS, three months’ notice is required from either
side for termination6.
Engagement with Purpose
TCS’ Engagement with Purpose model reimagines
employee engagement with a focus on health and
wellbeing, lifelong learning, career development,
living TCS’ values, social collaboration, and
community service. A key engagement platform has
been the virtual #OneTCS Channel which hosts
educative and inspirational speakers to foster a sense
of community.
6

GRI 402-1

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Key Achievements:

•

Purpose4life: Forum for volunteering for
community projects in the areas of education,
health and environment; over 22,000
volunteers contributed to 617,000 volunteering
hours in community initiatives that supported
over 353,000 beneficiaries.

•

Radio Maitree: a unique, interactive radio
program to enhance employee connect saw
participation by over 23,000 employees globally.

•

About 712,000 employee interactions enabled
through focused interventions such as Living my
Values, Build My Career and Lifelong Learning.

•

•

Leadership Townhalls cumulatively resulted
in nearly 590,000 employee interactions
with business leaders on TCS values and
organizational belonging.

Maitree: Community of TCSers and their
families who plan activities that help create a
bond among employees and promote work-life
balance.

•

TCS Cares: Program aimed at creating robust
avenues to build an emotionally strong and
mentally resilient workforce.

•

PULSE: TCS’ annual employee engagement
and satisfaction survey is the organization’s
formal listening forum. Our Annual Employee
Satisfaction Survey recorded an enthusiastic
participation from associates globally, with an
ASI of 80.6 and AEI of 81.0 - the highest over
the last 14 years.

•

Over 22,000 1x1 mentoring sessions and over
15,000 1x1 HR career conversations.

TCS’ various employee connect and collaboration
platforms are as below:
•

Knome, KnowMax, GEMS: Platforms for social
collaboration within the organization, learning,
sharing and for rewards and recognition.

•

Safety First: Initiative focused on employee
safety and security.

•

Fit4life: Builds a fraternity of health and fitness
conscious employees and creates a culture of
fitness’ around 42,000 active users contributed
a total of 19 million kms on the portal.

Employee Retention
TCS has always had the best retention rate in the
industry. Its values-driven culture, progressive
HR policies, and philosophy of investing in people
and empowering them have made it an industry
benchmark in talent retention practices. In FY 2022,
IT services attrition was 17.4% on an LTM basis, the
lowest among its peers.
Management Discussion and Analysis | 115

FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
The discussions in this section relate to the consolidated, Rupee-denominated financial results pertaining to the year that ended March 31, 2022. The financial statements
of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as ‘TCS’ or ‘the Company’) are prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards
(referred to as ‘Ind AS’) prescribed under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, as amended from time to
time. Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The following table gives an overview of the consolidated financial results of the company:

Revenue from operations
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) (before other
income)
Profit Before Tax (PBT)
Profit after tax attributable to shareholders of the company
Earnings per share (in `)

Revenue
191,754
53,057

(` crore)
FY 2022
% of Revenue
100.0
27.7

51,687
38,327
103.62

27.0
20.0

% Growth
16.8
14.0*
14.9*
14.8*
16.1*

FY 2021 Adjusted*
Revenue
% of Revenue
164,177
100.0
46,546
28.4
44,978
33,388
89.27

27.4
20.3

FY 2021 Reported
Revenue
% of Revenue
164,177
100.0
45,328
27.6
43,760
32,430
86.71

26.7
19.8

* Excludes provision towards legal claim
Analysis of revenue growth
On a reported basis, TCS’ revenue grew 16.8% in FY 2022, compared to 4.6% in the prior year, due to accelerated spending on digital transformation initiatives, cloud
adoption and increased outsourcing.
Average currency exchange rates during FY 2022 for the three major currencies are given below:
Currency

Weightage (%)

FY 2022
`

FY 2021
`

% Change YoY

USD

53.0

74.61

74.06

0.7

GBP

13.6

101.50

97.32

4.3

EUR

11.8

86.36

86.69

(0.4)

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management Discussion and Analysis | 116

Movements in currency exchange rates through the year resulted in a positive impact of 1.4% on the reported revenue. The constant currency revenue growth for the year,
which is the reported revenue growth stripped of the currency impact, was 15.4%.
Growth attributable to
Business growth
Impact of exchange rate
Total Growth

FY 2022 (%)
15.4
1.4
16.8

FY 2021 (%)
(0.8)
5.4
4.6

Segmental Performance
The revenue break-up by Industry Vertical and Geography is provided below:

Life Sciences
and Healthcare
10.7%

Others
7.8%

Others
10.8%
Banking,
Financial Services
and Insurance
39.2%

Manufacturing
9.7%

India
5.1%

Americas
52.2%

Communication,
Media and
Technology
16.6%

Europe
31.9%
Retail and
Consumer
Business
16.0%

Revenue by Industry Vertical
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Revenue by Geography
Management Discussion and Analysis | 117

Segment revenues, year on year growth, a brief commentary and segment margins are provided below:
Industry Vertical

Banking, Financial Services and
Insurance

Communication, Media and
Technology

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Segment Revenue
FY 2022
(FY 2021)
` crore

YoY
Revenue
Growth
%

75,126
(65,634)

14.5

31,874
(27,077)

17.7

Key Spending Areas

Segment Margin
FY 2022
(FY 2021)
%

•

Customer journey transformation, ecosystem strategies for new
products and services, fintech adoption.

26.9
(28.5)

•

Sustainability and climate change initiatives.

•

Regulatory: New credit risk and operational risk mandates, controls
management, consent order management and strategic framework
for risk and finance management.

•

Technology: Cloud adoption, cyber security, IT estate rationalization,
core platform simplification, agile and DevOps adoption.

•

5G and fiber rollout, network virtualization.

•

Data and analytics, cloud enablement, product and platform
engineering.

•

M&A, divestitures, business simplification.

•

Operating model resilience, cost optimization.

29.9
(29.6)

Management Discussion and Analysis | 118

Industry Vertical

Retail and Consumer Business

Manufacturing

Segment Revenue
FY 2022
(FY 2021)
` crore

YoY
Revenue
Growth
%

30,715
(25,589)

20.0

18,610
(15,950)

16.7

Key Spending Areas

Segment Margin
FY 2022
(FY 2021)
%

•

Seamless and Unified Customer experience across channels, hyper
personalization, last-mile delivery, marketplace, payments.

27.8
(27.9)

•

Supply chain transformation for speed and visibility.

•

Employee experience, automation, application and data
modernization, cloud migration, cost optimization.

•

IT infrastructure modernization, cloud enablement, cybersecurity.

•

Plant safety, remote asset management, energy efficiency and
decarbonization.

•

Supply chain resilience, process resilience.

•

Utilities invested in connected ecosystems, smart grids and front-end
digital investments to enhance customer experience.

30.1
(28.1)

Life Sciences and Healthcare

20,462
(16,968)

20.6

•

COVID-19 initiatives, connected labs, clinical trials, connected
instruments, digital surgery and health.

30.0
(31.0)

Others

14,967
(12,959)

15.5

•

Digital marketing and analytics, mergers, acquisitions and divestitures,
digital workplace transformation, ERP modernization, cloud
transformation, intelligent automation, data democratization, analytics
and insights, cyber security.

20.6
(22.9)

•

IT operating model transformation, Agile & DevOps, vendor
consolidation.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management Discussion and Analysis | 119

Business Outlook
Global growth is expected to moderate from 6.1% in
2021 to 3.6 percent in 20227, driven by withdrawal
of monetary accommodation in major economies,
continued supply side shortages and economic
damage from the war in Ukraine. While enterprise
spending on technology is expected to go up, growth
is expected to moderate year on year at an industry
level, leaving space for outperformance through
market share gains and strong deal wins. Key themes
expected to drive client spending, and continued
business momentum for the company in FY 2023,
include:
G&T Themes:






7

Customer Experience: Continued focus
on strengthening and deepening customer
relationships through digital channels,
reimagination of omnichannel journeys,
immersive device-agnostic experiences
using XR / Metaverse, and hyperpersonalization.
Product Innovation: Accelerated spending
on servitization to provide a connected
experience and enable new business
models.



Sustainability: New products and services
aligned to the sustainability / SDG agenda,
new systems to measure, track and reduce
GHG emissions across the value chain
towards Net Zero goals.



Others: Employee experience; B2B2C /
D2C; M&A; supply chain modernization
for better visibility, agility and resilience;
purpose-driven, collaborative ecosystems
to launch new offerings and new business
models; smart manufacturing with greater
automation, digital twins and predictive
maintenance; industry transformation.



Technology: Cloud migration; digital workplace;
data estate and application modernization; cyber
security; ERP modernization; low-code, no-code
adoption; 5G/Edge adoption.



Operations: AI/ML-led transformation of IT /
business operations for greater resilience and
leaner operating models; managed services
models.

continue to challenge businesses in every possible
way amplifying existing risks. Not only are the nature
of risks evolving, but the speed of risk is increasing
with faster time to impact. Geo-political situations
like the Russia Ukraine war have further forced
global businesses to revisit their operations, delivery,
supply chains and contractual aspects. Operating in
an uncertain and ever-changing environment, TCS’
global operations bring in considerable complexities
and TCS’ robust enterprise risk management
framework aids in ensuring the strategic
objectives are achieved. This framework enables
risk identification, risk assessment, risk response
planning and actions, risk monitoring and overall risk
governance. Key Risk Indicators are used to identify
and assess risks. The digital platform for integrated
risk management provides an enterprise-wide view
of risks covering strategic, operational, compliance,
financial and catastrophic risks, providing a holistic
approach towards informed decision making. Risks
are assessed and managed at various levels with a
top-down and bottom-up approach covering the
enterprise, the business units, the geographies, the
functions, the customer relationships and projects.

Enterprise Risk Management
While the world and businesses are recovering
from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic of
the last two years, new external and internal risks

World Economic Outlook, IMF, April 2022

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management Discussion and Analysis | 120

Listed below are some of the key risks, anticipated impact on the company and mitigation strategies.
Key Risks
Volatile global
political and
economic scenario

Impact on the Company
The company derives a material portion of its revenues
from customers’ discretionary spending which is linked
to their business outlook.
Geo-political disruptions such as the war in Ukraine
and resultant volatility in the global economy, or trade
wars may adversely affect that outlook resulting in
reduced spending which could restrict revenue growth
opportunities.

Mitigation
•

Broad-based business mix, well diversified across geographies and industry verticals.

•

Monitor changing geopolitical scenarios, the potential business implications and
strengthen internal controls to further safeguard against secondary risks.

•

Offerings and value propositions targeting all stakeholders (in addition to the CIO)
in the customer organization, covering discretionary as well as non-discretionary
spends, and relevant at every point in the business cycle.

•

Participate in the customer’s growth and transformation initiatives through services
and offerings including advisory services, migration and modernization of applications
and workplace transformation using location independent agile, deep contextual
knowledge and data-driven analytics and dashboards.

•

Proactively investing in infrastructure and resourcing to satisfy anticipated customer
demand for flexible products and platforms based solution offerings and subscriptionbased services to gain market share and new clients and markets.

•

More long-term contracting models.

•

Leverage business ecosystem through collaboration with partners, start-ups and
alliances to participate in transformation initiatives of customers.

This could also result in steep inflation globally which
could impact client spending as well as increase TCS’
cost of doing business.
Additionally, there could be higher risk to service
delivery, business continuity, cybersecurity, sanctions
compliance and human rights risks in geo-politically
sensitive zones.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management Discussion and Analysis | 121

Key Risks
Disruption and
uncertainty in
business due to
the COVID-19
pandemic

Impact on the Company
While presently the severity of the disease due
to COVID-19 has reduced because of increased
vaccination, as immunity may wane over a period of
time, there is a risk of further waves and emergence of
highly transmissible and more virulent variants.

Mitigation
•

Encourage new employees to get vaccinated as per the country level internal
vaccination policies, government guidelines and including facilitating booster doses as
available.

•

Employee well-being initiatives like 24*7 dedicated helpline for employees to
address COVID-19 related help, queries for emotional support, interactive sessions,
counseling services (TCS Cares), medical hotline to doctors, fitness sessions for
employees and Covid Care Centres in TCS premises.

This may have an impact on the health and safety,
emotional wellbeing and mobility of TCS’ workforce,
which in turn may impact service delivery and revenues.
•
If large numbers of employees are affected, it could
result in business disruption and necessitate higher
spends for ensuring business resiliency. There could be
hesitation to come back to office in the near future from
employees who have been working remotely from their •
hometowns.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Enable employees to return to office while providing flexibility through the hybrid
work model using Secure Borderless WorkSpaces (SBWSTM) for remote working,
while following safe protocols like masks and social distancing in offices.
Leverage emerging technology based tools to anticipate and be resilient for any
upcoming COVID-19 waves / variants.

•

The COVID-19 Apex committee at Enterprise level continues to monitor the residual
risks and coordinate global efforts required, based on frequent risk assessments.

•

Regular communication with customers about measures taken to maintain business
services and reporting of their operations status.

•

Regular coordination with key suppliers for expeditious provisioning of assets critical
for business services.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 122

Key Risks

Talent risk due to
huge demand for
talent globally and
attrition

Impact on the Company

The company’s ability to attract, develop, motivate, and
retain talent is critical to business success. Increase
in attrition can impact TCS’ ability to deliver existing
business engagements and grow.
Inability to attract experienced professionals with
niche digital skills from the market, can also impact TCS’
ability to grow.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Mitigation
•

SOP for operating TCS Offices including implementing Safe Operating Zones for
associates requiring to work from office, thermal screening, frequent sanitization
of premises, social distancing layout etc. AI-based Workplace resilience tool
implemented in Delivery Centres to aid in risk profiling and contact tracing.

•

Revised Business Continuity plans which are benchmarked against ISO 22301 in
place, for hybrid mode of working and to address any future waves of the pandemic.

•

Remote working practices for managers and employees integrated into the Location
Independent Agile delivery method, to ensure effectiveness and productivity.

•

Monitor changes in regulations related to the impact due to pandemic and align
internal policies accordingly.

•

Commitment to organic talent development, best in class learning and development,
linkage of career growth to learning, and preference to internal talent for new
leadership positions, all incentivize planning of longer-term careers in TCS.

•

Focused tactical initiatives to retain talent using proactive as well as reactive
initiatives; increased employee engagement.

•

Leveraging top employer brand and social networking sites and talent sourcing
channels to tap into the passive pool.

•

Reducing talent acquisition cycle time to improve joining rates through innovative
practices.

•

Upskill or cross-skill employees to improve competencies.

•

Engaging in various markets through investments in STEM/GoIT programs, building
local talent, building reputation locally to attract talent, campus engagements, etc.
Management Discussion and Analysis | 123

Key Risks
Restrictions on
global mobility,
location strategies

Impact on the Company
Distributed software development models require the
free movement of people across countries and any
restrictions in key markets pose a threat to the global
mobility of skilled professionals.

Mitigation
•

Ongoing monitoring of the global environment, working with advisors, partners and
governments.

•

Material reduction in dependency on work visas through increased hiring of local
talent including freshers, use of contractors, local mobility and training in all major
markets.

Restrictions on mobility due to the pandemic or geopolitical developments, or due to legislations which limit
•
the availability of work visas or which apply onerous
eligibility criteria or costs leading to project delays and
increased expenses.

Business model
challenges

Rapidly evolving technologies are changing technology
consumption patterns, creating new classes of
buyers within the enterprise, giving rise to entirely
new business models and therefore new kinds of
competitors.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Leveraging the SBWSTM model to source talent from anywhere and deliver from
anywhere. Use of Location Independent Agile to promote systematic collaboration
and reduce the need for co-location.

•

Active engagement in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) initiatives
designed to structurally increase the availability of engineering talent in major
markets.

•

Greater brand visibility through event sponsorships, community outreach, showcasing
of investments, innovation capabilities and employment generation.

•

Increased outreach to government stakeholders, trade bodies, think tanks and
research institutes.

•

Investments in building scale and differentiated capabilities on emerging technologies
through large scale reskilling, external hiring, research and innovation, solution
development and IP asset creation leveraging deep contextual knowledge across
customer specific domain, technologies and processes.

•

Establishment of focused business service units providing end-to-end
transformational and operational solutions on leading cloud technology platforms
spanning advisory, migration and modernization and support of applications.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 124

Key Risks

Currency volatility

Impact on the Company

Mitigation

The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a major
acceleration of technology investments by customers
to make themselves future-proof and also to power
the revival of their business. This is resulting in
increased demands on the company’s agility to keep
pace with the rapidly changing customer expectations.
Failure to cope may result in loss of market share and
impact business growth.

•

Staying relevant to customers by constantly launching new service practices and
technology solutions including a new AI-Powered business command solution to help
firms assess risk profiles and protect employees returning to offices and modernizing
existing offerings and solutions.

•

Develop capabilities in organization divestiture and integration planning to cater to
Merger and Acquisition induced demand for advisory and business consolidation
related services.

There is also increased focus on vendor consolidation
and corporate restructuring and mergers and
acquisitions in some customer industries.

•

Thought leadership by propagating the Business 4.0 framework leveraging the
Machine First Delivery Model (MFDMTM). Develop industry-specific best practices and
Artificial Intelligence led products to enable customers derive greater business value
and discover opportunities to transform and grow their businesses.

•

Implement Location Independent Agile methods to mitigate location constraints and
pricing and margin pressures.

•

Constant scouring of the technology landscape through alliance partnerships, and
strong connections in academia and the start-up ecosystem to spot new trends and
technologies and launch offerings around them.

•

Enhancing ability to craft and win large deals.

•

Go to market solutions by working along with partners and alliances, to enable faster
transformation turnaround times for clients.

•

TCS follows a currency hedging policy that is aligned with market best practices,
to limit impact of exchange volatility on receivables, forecasted revenue and other
current assets and liabilities.

•

Hedging strategies are decided and monitored periodically by the Risk Management
Committee of the Board convened on a regular basis.

Volatility in currency exchange movements results in
transaction and translation exposure. TCS’ functional
currency is the Indian Rupee. Appreciation of the
Rupee against any major currency could impact the
reported revenue in Rupee terms, the profitability and
also result in collection losses.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management Discussion and Analysis | 125

Key Risks
Breach of data
protection laws

Impact on the Company
The focus on data privacy and protection of personal
data has increased significantly over the last few
years. Legislations like GDPR in Europe carry severe
consequences for non-compliance or breach. Many
other countries have enacted or are enacting their
Data Privacy regulations to ensure protection of
personal data. Violation of data protection laws or
security breaches can result in substantive liabilities,
fines or penalties and reputational impact.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Mitigation
•

Global privacy policy covering all geographies and areas of operations, which sets out
the privacy principles and guidance for deployment.

•

Organization structure with the Global Privacy Office to strategise, monitor and guide
deployment of data privacy framework across the enterprise. Data Protection Officers
and other privacy officers have been appointed for TCS entities as required by local
privacy regulations to monitor and drive implementation of data protection principles.
Business Privacy Leaders are appointed to deploy compliance to the data privacy
framework in all functions and business units.

•

Privacy Information Management Systems (ISO 27701:2019) adopted and certified.

•

Continuous monitoring and analysis of changes to regulatory and legal landscape and
enhancing the data privacy framework.

•

Embedding privacy by design and privacy by default principles in development of
new or changed internal processes or services or products. Robust and continued
governance of personal data processing.

•

Data protection controls and robust risk response mechanisms in place to protect
personal data in the TCS ecosystem and also in the customer engagements.

•

Industry standard data masking and encryption technologies to protect personal data.

•

Vendors and third parties contracted with privacy obligations and tracked for
compliance based on risk assessment.

•

Mandatory trainings and workshops on data protection, Privacy by Design and global
privacy regulations. Continuous awareness campaigns through blog posts, email
broadcasts, gamification, roadshows and online events.

•

Implementing and maintaining data transfer agreements, where required for the
transfer of data across jurisdictions.

•

Periodic reviews and audits by independent audit firm to verify compliance to
obligations in addition to internal audits across the ecosystem.
Management Discussion and Analysis | 126

Key Risks
Cyber attacks

Impact on the Company
Risks of cyber-attacks are forever a threat on account
of the fast-evolving nature of the threat. There is also
an increased risk due to various pandemic themed
cyber threats and attacks due to geo-political drivers.
In addition to impact on business operations, a security
breach could result in reputational damage, penalties
and legal and financial liabilities.

Mitigation
•

Advanced tools based on AI/ML aiding prevention and detection requirements with
quarantine capabilities, including Perimeter security controls with advanced tools,
enhanced internal vulnerability detection, data leak prevention tools, defined and
tested incident management and recovery process in compliance with industry best
practices.

•

Continued reinforcement of stringent security policies and procedures including
enhanced security measures and awareness building to combat pandemic-themed
threats like phishing, soliciting for fraudulent causes or charities, suspicious pleas and
communication through social media, text or calls.

•

Close collaboration with Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) and other
private Cyber Intelligence agencies, and enhanced awareness of emerging cyber
threats.

•

Enterprise-wide training and awareness programs on Information Security including
the extensively used enterprise-wide communication and collaboration platforms
accessed through mobile or desktop channels.

•

Strict access controls including non-persistent passwords (OTP) for secure access to
enterprise applications/network. Special handling of privileged administrator accounts.
Rigorous access management on all Cloud deployments.

•

Encryption of data, data back-up and recovery mechanisms for ensuring business
continuity.

•

Ability to isolate TCS enterprise network from client network and defined escalation
mechanisms to handle security incidents in client environment.

Market Opportunity:
Enterprises are increasing their investments in
building cyber resilience to be able to detect and foil
intrusion attempts, and limit the impact. This presents
an opportunity to expand customer relationships and
become the preferred cyber security partner.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management Discussion and Analysis | 127

Key Risks

Impact on the Company

Mitigation
•

Periodic rigorous testing to validate effectiveness of controls through Vulnerability
Assessment and Penetration Testing.

•

Internal and external audits, red teaming, breach and attack simulation.

Market opportunity

Non-compliance
to complex and
changing global
regulations

As a global organization, the company has to comply
with a complex regulatory landscape across multiple
jurisdictions, covering areas such as Employment and
Labour, Immigration, Taxation, Foreign Exchange and
Export Control, Sanctions, Environment, Health and
Safety, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, Data Privacy
and so on.
The laws and regulations are continuously evolving,
increasing in number and complexity. This has resulted
in greater compliance risk and cost of compliance for
the company.
The fast pace of changes in the regulatory
environment requires quick understanding of their
implications and adaptation in business operations.
Failure to comply could result in penalties, reputational
damage and criminal prosecution.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

•

Investments in building local threat management centers across the world, and the
launch of new services and solutions including the Cyber Defense Suite, are helping
TCS gain traction in this rapidly growing opportunity.

•

Deployment of a comprehensive global compliance management framework that
enables tracking of changes to applicable laws and regulations across various
jurisdictions, including new countries of operations and functional areas.

•

Operationalizing regulatory requirements through business policies and processes.

•

Clear accountability for compliance obligations and digitized tracking of such activities
with evidence and verification.

•

Periodic regulatory compliance certification, which is fully digitized enables
self-governance and covers compliance across all the locations of the company.

•

Adequate and effective internal controls to comply with regulations and to keep a
check on unlawful and fraudulent activities and internal audits to provide assurance.

•

Strong focus on fostering ethical and compliance culture; Awareness through
web-based compliance training courses for all staff and regular notifications/alerts
on regulatory changes communicated to stakeholders.

•

Strong governance at board, executive and management level through compliance
committees and compliance working groups.
Management Discussion and Analysis | 128

Key Risks

Impact on the Company

Mitigation

Intellectual Property Risk of infringement of third-party IPs by TCS may lead •
(IP) infringement
to potential liabilities, increased litigation and impact
and leakage
reputation.
Inadequate protection of TCS’ IP may lead to loss of IP
leading to potential loss of ownership rights, revenue
and value.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

TCS has established an industry leading IP management framework (IP 4.0) and
accordingly has institutionalized frameworks, processes and procedures that address
the risk of infringement of third-party IP while ensuring safeguarding of TCS’ own IP
assets. This strong focus on IP-led growth driven based on the 3P (Patents, Products
and Platforms) strategy is contributing significantly towards thinning the competition
for TCS.

•

TCS has established a centralized IP and Software Product Engineering group that
strives to build an IP thinking culture and hence covering the IP related awareness
aspects effectively.

•

There is a well-defined (software) asset lifecycle governance framework that
incorporates policy guidance and risk mitigation guidelines on IP, Legal, software
product engineering and business-related risks.

•

IP Governance program that ensures that there is right access and right use of TCS
IP, customer IP, partner IP, and third-party IP in service and partner engagements.

•

Other key controls include employee confidentiality agreement, training and
awareness for IP protection and prevention of IP contamination and infringement.
Digitized system to enable strict controls around movement of people and
information across TCS’ product teams and customer account teams.

•

Technology inventions are celebrated in TCS by running special programs such as
“Invent & Inspire” wherein top inventors and their invention stories are recognized for
their success and impact on business.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 129

Key Risks
Litigation risks

Sustainability Risks
- Climate change
and Environmental
aspects9

Impact on the Company
Given the scale and geographic spread of the
company’s operations, litigation risks can arise from
commercial disputes, perceived violation of intellectual
property rights and employment related matters.
TCS’ rising profile and scale also makes it a target to
litigations without any legal merit. This risk is inherent
to doing business across the various countries and
commensurate with risk faced by other players similarly
placed in the industry. In addition to incurring legal
costs and distracting management, litigations garner
negative media attention and pose reputation risk.
Adverse rulings can result in substantive damages.

•

Strengthening internal processes and controls to adequately ensure compliance with
contractual obligations, information security and protection of intellectual property.

•

Improved governance and controls over immigration process /increasing localization
and sensitization of business managers.

•

Potential disputes are promptly brought to the attention of management and dealt
with appropriately.

•

Team of in-house counsels in all major geographies and a network of reputed global
law firms in countries it operates in.

•

Robust mechanism to track and respond to notices as well as defend the company’s
position in all claims and litigation.

Growing scientific evidence indicates that extreme
weather conditions like intense winter storms, rainfall,
cyclones, droughts, are attributable to climate change.
As a result of changing weather and seasonal patterns,
there are also increasing cases of seasonal diseases,
epidemics and pandemics besides threat to human
safety and business disruption.

•

An environmentally sustainable approach is adopted by creating green policies,
processes, frameworks and infrastructure. All TCS Centers globally continue to be
certified under the ISO14001:2015 Environment Management Standard.

•

Delivery centers designed to withstand extreme weather events. Business Continuity
plans tested periodically to ensure effectiveness.

•

Green buildings, efficient operations, green IT, the use of renewable energy to reduce
carbon footprint; adoption of newer technologies and methods to manage waste in
line with circular economy principles.

•

Operational and engineering controls to minimize freshwater consumption,
upgradation of water infrastructure and more water efficient systems.

•

Water management through sewage treatment, recycling of treated water and
rainwater harvesting.

With globally distributed operations, the company
faces physical risks to life and property due to extreme
weather events; transition risks resulting from
disruptions in the market and emerging regulations;
disruptions to operations due to water scarcity; risks of

9

Mitigation

GRI 201-2

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management Discussion and Analysis | 130

Key Risks

Impact on the Company
inadvertent non-compliance to emerging regulatory
requirements around circular economy, e-waste and
solid waste regulations, impacting health and safety in
local communities, business disruption and reputational
damage.

Mitigation
•

Supply Chain sustainability through responsible sourcing.

•

Year-round associate engagement on environmental awareness and sensitizing them
towards nature and conservation of resources.

•

Initiatives like TCS Circle4Llife™ and sustainathons to come up with technology-led
innovations to safeguard environment.

Market dimension and opportunity:
•

•

Market dimension and opportunity:
There is also a commercial opportunity to
participate in customers’ climate change mitigation
• As enterprises look to reduce their own carbon footprint and cater to the growing
journey by leveraging TCS’ core competencies.
demand more environmentally friendly products and services, it opens up new
business opportunities for TCS to provide technology-led solutions to help them
As TCS moves towards its net-zero goal by
realize their green plans.
2030, being a socially responsible and purposeful
organization brings opportunities to attract young
• Key solution areas include designing sustainability strategy, sustainability innovation,
talent.
sustainable consumer analytics and sustainable dashboards.
•

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Additionally, TCS products and solutions such as TCS Clever Energy™, Envirozone™,
ESG integration Solution, help customers accelerate their sustainability journeys.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 131

Internal Financial Control Systems and their
Adequacy
TCS has aligned its current systems of internal
financial control with the requirement of Companies
Act 2013, on the lines of the globally accepted
risk-based framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway
Commission. The Internal Control – Integrated
Framework (the 2013 framework) is intended
to increase transparency and accountability
in an organization’s process of designing and
implementing a system of internal control. The
framework requires a company to identify and
analyze risks and manage appropriate responses. The
company has successfully laid down the framework
and ensured its effectiveness.
TCS’ internal controls are commensurate with its
size and the nature of its operations. These have
been designed to provide reasonable assurance
with regard to recording and providing reliable
financial and operational information, complying
with applicable statutes, safeguarding assets from
unauthorized use, executing transactions with
proper authorization and ensuring compliance with
corporate policies. TCS has a well-defined delegation

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

of power with authority limits for approving
contracts as well as expenditure. Processes for
formulating and reviewing annual and long-term
business plans have been laid down. TCS uses a
state-of-the-art enterprise resource planning (ERP)
system that connects all parts of the organization,
to record data for accounting, consolidation and
management information purposes. It has continued
its efforts to align all its processes and controls with
global best practices.
TCS management assessed the effectiveness
of the company’s internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Regulation 17 of SEBI LODR
Regulations 2015) as of March 31, 2022.
B S R & Co. LLP, the statutory auditors of TCS have
audited the financial statements included in this
annual report and have issued an attestation report
on the company’s internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in section 143 of Companies
Act 2013).
TCS has appointed Ernst & Young LLP to oversee
and carry out internal audit of its activities. The audit
is based on an internal audit plan, which is reviewed
each year in consultation with the statutory auditors
and approved by the audit committee. In line with

international practice, the conduct of internal audit is
oriented towards the review of internal controls and
risks in the company’s operations such as software
delivery, accounting and finance, procurement,
employee engagement, travel, insurance, IT
processes, including most of the subsidiaries and
foreign branches.
TCS also undergoes periodic audit by specialized
third party consultants and professionals for business
specific compliances such as quality management,
service management, information security, etc.
The audit committee reviews reports submitted by
the management and audit reports submitted by
internal auditors and statutory auditors. Suggestions
for improvement are considered and the audit
committee follows up on corrective action. The
audit committee also meets TCS’ statutory auditors
to ascertain, inter alia, their views on the adequacy
of internal control systems and keeps the board
of directors informed of its major observations
periodically.
Based on its evaluation (as defined in section 177
of Companies Act 2013 and Regulation 18 of SEBI
LODR Regulations 2015), TCS’ audit committee
has concluded that, as of March 31, 2022, the
company’s internal financial controls were adequate
and operating effectively.

Management Discussion and Analysis | 132

Performance Trend – 10 years
FY 2022 FY 2021*
Revenue from operations
Total revenue from operations
191,754
164,177
Revenue by geographic segments
Americas
100,072
84,278
Europe
61,142
52,346
India
9,805
8,449
Others
20,735
19,104
Cost
Employee cost
107,554
91,814
Other operating cost
31,143
25,817
Total cost (excluding interest & depreciation)
138,697
117,631
Profitability
EBITDA (before other income)
53,057
46,546
Profit before tax
51,687
44,978
Profit after tax attributable to shareholders of the
38,327
33,388
Company
Financial Position
Equity share capital
366
370
Reserves and surplus
88,773
87,014
Gross block of property, plant and equipment
30,300
28,658
Total investments
30,485
29,373
Net current assets
65,959
66,076
Earnings per share in `
EPS - as reported
103.62
89.27
EPS - adjusted for Bonus Issue
103.62
89.27
Headcount (number)
592,195
488,649
Headcount (including subsidiaries) as on March 31st
Note : The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
# Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Amounts in ` Crore

FY 2021

Ind AS
FY 2020 FY 2019

Indian GAAP
FY 2015 FY 2014

FY 2018

FY 2017

FY 2016

FY 2015#

164,177

156,949

146,463

123,104

117,966

108,646

94,648

94,648

81,809

62,989

84,278
52,346
8,449
19,104

82,000
48,037
8,964
17,948

77,562
43,456
8,393
17,052

66,145
34,155
7,921
14,883

66,091
30,038
7,415
14,422

60,011
29,092
6,729
12,814

51,053
26,730
6,108
10,757

51,053
26,730
6,108
10,757

45,259
23,433
5,488
7,629

35,247
16,813
4,890
6,039

91,814
27,035
118,849

85,952
28,888
114,840

78,246
28,711
106,957

66,396
24,192
90,588

61,621
24,034
85,655

55,348
22,621
77,969

48,296
19,242
67,538

50,924
19,242
70,166

40,486
16,170
56,656

31,922
13,027
44,949

45,328
43,760
32,430

42,109
42,248
32,340

39,506
41,563
31,472

32,516
34,092
25,826

32,311
34,513
26,289

30,677
31,840
24,270

27,110
28,437
21,912

24,482
25,809
19,852

25,153
25,402
19,164

18,040
18,090
13,917

370
86,063
28,658
29,373
65,125

375
83,751
26,444
26,356
63,177

375
89,071
24,522
29,330
70,047

191
84,937
22,720
36,008
63,396

197
86,017
20,891
41,980
65,804

197
70,875
19,308
22,822
47,644

196
52,499
16,624
1,662
30,726

196
50,439
16,624
1,662
28,495

196
48,999
13,162
3,434
27,227

196
38,350
10,996
1,897
19,734

86.71
86.71

86.19
86.19

83.05
83.05

134.19
67.10

133.41
66.71

123.18
61.59

111.87
55.94

101.35
50.68

97.67
48.84

70.99
35.50

488,649

448,464

424,285

394,998

387,223

353,843

319,656

319,656

300,464

276,196

FY 2013

Management Discussion and Analysis | 133

Overview of Funds Invested
Funds invested exclude earmarked balances with banks and equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.
FY 2022

FY 2021
Current

FY 2022

FY 2021

(` crore)
FY 2022

Non-current

FY 2021

Total funds invested

Investments in mutual funds, Government securities
and others

30,262

29,160

187

175

30,449

29,335

Deposits with banks

15,784

3,848

1,232

719

17,016

4,567

Inter-corporate deposits

6,074

11,229

303

27

6,377

11,256

Cash and bank balances

2,211

5,272

-

-

2,211

5,272

Total

54,331

49,509

1,722

921

56,053

50,430

Total invested funds include `1,722 crore and `1,306 crore for FY 2022 and FY 2021, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management Discussion and Analysis | 134

Ratio Analysis – 10 years
Ratio Analysis

Ind AS

Indian GAAP
FY 2018

FY 2017

FY 2016

#

Unit

FY 2022

FY 2021*

FY 2021

FY 2020

FY 2019

FY 2015

FY 2015

FY 2014

FY 2013

Employee Cost / Total Revenue

%

56.1

55.9

55.9

54.8

53.4

53.9

52.2

50.9

51.0

53.8

49.5

50.7

Other Operating Cost / Total Revenue

%

16.2

15.7

16.5

18.4

19.6

19.7

20.4

20.9

20.4

20.3

19.8

20.7

Total cost (excluding interest & depreciation) /

%

72.3

71.6

72.4

73.2

73.0

73.6

72.6

71.8

71.4

74.1

69.3

71.4

EBITDA (Before Other Income) / Total Revenue

%

27.7

28.4

27.6

26.8

27.0

26.4

27.4

28.2

28.6

25.9

30.7

28.6

Profit Before Tax / Total Revenue

%

27.0

27.4

26.7

26.9

28.4

27.7

29.3

29.3

30.0

27.3

31.1

28.7

Tax / Total Revenue

%

6.9

7.0

6.8

6.2

6.8

6.7

6.9

6.9

7.2

6.6

7.4

6.4

Effective Tax Rate - Tax / PBT

%

25.6

25.5

25.6

23.2

24.1

24.1

23.6

23.6

23.5

23.7

23.9

22.2

Profit After Tax / Total Revenue

%

20.0

20.3

19.8

20.6

21.5

21.0

22.3

22.3

23.2

21.0

23.4

22.1

Total Revenue

%

16.8

4.6

4.6

7.2

19.0

4.4

8.6

14.8

15.7

15.7

29.9

28.8

EBITDA (Before Other Income)

%

14.0

10.5

7.6

6.6

21.5

0.6

5.3

25.3

7.8

(2.7)

39.4

25.0

Profit After Tax

%

14.8

3.2

0.3

2.8

21.9

(1.8)

8.3

22.3

14.3

3.6

37.7

33.6

Debt (excluding lease liabilities) - Equity Ratio

Times

-

-

-

-

-

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.0

0.0

Ratios - Financial Performance

Total Revenue

Ratios - Growth

Ratios - Balance Sheet

Current Ratio

Times

2.6

3.0

2.9

3.3

4.2

4.6

5.5

4.1

3.9

2.4

2.7

2.7

Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) in ` terms

Days

65

67

67

71

68

74

70

81

79

79

81

82

Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) in $ terms

Days

64

68

68

67

69

74

73

80

78

78

82

82

Note : The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
#Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management Discussion and Analysis | 135

Ratio Analysis

Ind AS

Indian GAAP

Unit

FY 2022

FY 2021*

FY 2021

FY 2020

FY 2019

FY 2018

FY 2017

FY 2016

FY 2015

FY 2015

FY 2014

FY 2013

Invested Funds / Capital Employed

%

57.4

52.6

53.1

47.7

55.2

55.6

55.8

45.8

42.3

43.9

44.0

37.2

Capital Expenditure / Total Revenue

%

1.5

1.9

1.9

2.0

1.5

1.5

1.7

1.8

3.1

3.1

3.8

4.2

#

Operating Cash Flows / Total Revenue

%

20.8

23.6

23.6

20.6

19.5

20.4

21.4

17.6

20.5

20.5

18.0

18.4

Free Cash Flow / Operating Cash Flow Ratio

%

92.6

91.9

91.9

90.5

92.5

92.8

92.3

89.7

84.8

84.8

78.9

77.3

Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment

%

9.1

8.7

8.7

8.6

8.5

9.1

9.5

10.0

11.7

11.7

10.6

10.2

`

103.62

89.27

86.71

86.19

83.05

67.10

66.71

61.59

55.94

50.68

48.84

35.50

Times

36.1

35.6

36.6

21.2

24.1

21.2

18.2

20.4

22.8

25.1

21.8

22.1

(PPE) / Average Gross Block of PPE
Ratios - Per Share
EPS - adjusted for Bonus
Price Earning Ratio, end of year
Dividend Per Share

`

43.00

38.00

38.00

73.00

30.00

50.00

47.00

43.50

79.00

79.00

32.00

22.00

Dividend Per Share - adjusted for Bonus

`

43.00

38.00

38.00

73.00

30.00

25.00

23.50

21.75

39.50

39.50

16.00

11.00

Market Capitalisation / Total Revenue

Times

7.1

7.2

7.2

4.4

5.1

4.4

4.1

4.6

5.3

5.3

5.1

4.9

Note : The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
#Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management Discussion and Analysis | 136

Corporate
Governance
Report

I.	Company’s Philosophy on Corporate
Governance

In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of
Conduct for its non-executive directors which
includes Code of Conduct for Independent
Directors that suitably incorporates the duties
of independent directors as laid down in the
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).

Effective corporate governance practices
constitute the strong foundation on which
successful commercial enterprises are built to
last. The Company’s philosophy on corporate
governance oversees business strategies and
ensures fiscal accountability, ethical corporate
behaviour and fairness to all stakeholders
comprising regulators, employees, customers,
vendors, investors and the society at large.

The Company’s corporate governance
philosophy has been further strengthened
through the Tata Business Excellence Model,
the TCS Code of Conduct for Prevention of
Insider Trading and the Code of Corporate
Disclosure Practices (“Insider Trading Code”).
The Company has in place an Information
Security Policy that ensures proper utilization of
IT resources.

Strong leadership and effective corporate
governance practices have been the Company’s
hallmark inherited from the Tata culture and
ethos.

The Company is in compliance with the
requirements stipulated under Regulation 17
to 27 read with Schedule V and clauses (b) to (i)
and (t) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”),
as applicable, with regard to corporate
governance.

The Company follows the Tata Group philosophy
of building sustainable businesses that are
rooted in the community and demonstrate care
for the environment. Being a part of the
Tata Group, which epitomizes sustainability,
TCS has inherited a strong legacy of fair and
transparent ethical governance, as embodied in
the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC).

The details of TCS’ board structure and
the various committees that constitute the
governance structure1 of the organization are
covered in detail in this report.

The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct
for its employees including the Managing
Director and the Executive Directors.
1

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

GRI 2-9
Corporate Governance Report | 137

The various material aspects of corporate governance and TCS’ approach to them
are discussed in the table below:   2
Material Topic
Board
effectiveness,
independence
and protection
of minority
shareholders’
interests

TCS’ Approach
Board effectiveness is enhanced by setting a high bar in selecting
the right mix of individuals to serve on the Board, with the right
qualifications, expertise and experience, who can collectively
serve the best interests of all stakeholders, maintain board and
management accountability and drive corporate ethics, values and
sustainability. Profiles of Board members are available at
https://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance
For greater diversity of opinions and perspectives within the Board,
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee2 has fostered diversity
in terms of backgrounds, areas of expertise and:
•

Gender: 2 of the 9 (22.2 percent) members are women.

•

 ationality: 3 nationalities represented – Indian, American and
N
Danish.

•

Industry: Technology, Banking, Energy, Transportation and
Academia.

Material Topic

TCS’ Approach
Board effectiveness is further improved by ensuring that none of the
directors holds directorships in more than seven listed entities, and
none of the executive directors serve as an independent director on
the Boards of more than three listed entities.
TCS’ governance philosophy around minority shareholders’ interests
is guided by the TCoC which emphasizes fairness and transparency to
all stakeholders. Further a qualified, diverse and independent Board
ensures that minority shareholders’ interests are protected.
TCS strives to reduce information asymmetry through transparency,
extensive disclosures and detailed commentary of the demand
environment and the state of the business, and material
developments. The Company provides a variety of channels including
a structured global investor outreach program, through which
minority shareholders can interact with the management or the
Board.
Shareholders can communicate concerns and grievances to the
Company Secretary’s office through a well-publicized channel, where
complaints are tracked to closure. The Stakeholders’ Relationship
Committee oversees the redressal of these complaints.

TCS’ policy on Appointment of Directors and Board Diversity can be
found at https://on.tcs.com/appointment-BoD.
Board independence is ensured by having an independent majority,
with 5 independent directors out of 9 i.e., 55.6 percent. None of the
independent directors is related to each other, or to the
non-independent directors. Average tenure of independent directors
is 5 years.

2

GRI 2-10

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 138

34 5 6

Material Topic

TCS’ Approach

Avoidance of
conflict of interest3

Chairmanship of the Board is a non-executive position, and separate
from that of the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director
(CEO and MD).

Customers are made aware of the TCoC principles in contract
discussions, and through inclusion of specific clauses in proposals and
contracts.

TCoC5 for non-executive directors, and for independent directors,
carries explicit clauses covering avoidance of conflict of interest.
Likewise, it explicitly prohibits any employee – including the
Managing Director and executive directors – from accepting any
position of responsibility, with or without remuneration, with any
other organization without TCS’ prior written approval. For executive
directors and the Managing Director, such approval must be obtained
from the Board.

Employees can raise ethics concerns on Ultimatix – the intranet
portal of the Company, which are investigated and tracked to closure
by the HR department. Employees and other stakeholders can also
report any non-compliance to the TCoC or to the laws of the land by
senior executives directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee
under the Whistle blower Policy without fear of retaliation.
Information about these channels is communicated to employees as
part of the mandatory training modules.

Over the last five decades, TCS has consistently demonstrated
very principled conduct and has earned its reputation for trust and
integrity while building a highly successful global business.
The Company’s core values are: Leading Change, Integrity, Respect
for the Individual, Excellence, and Learning and Sharing.

Compliance to laws of the countries in which we operate, as well as
global legislation such as Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Bribery Act,
2010 is monitored through formal compliance procedures led by
the corporate compliance office. Changes to legislation are closely
monitored, risks are evaluated and effectively managed across our
operations.

Values, Ethics and
compliance6

4

The TCoC serves as a moral guide and a governing framework for
responsible corporate citizenship. It sets out guidelines on various
topics including respect for human rights, prohibition of bribery and
corruption, recognition of employees’ freedom of association, and
avoidance of conflicts of interest.
Every employee is required to sign the TCoC at the time of joining
the Company. Annual refresher courses are mandated to ensure
continued awareness of the Code. Further, frequent communications
from the leadership reiterate the importance of the company values
and the TCoC.

Material Topic

TCS’ Approach

Governance, Risk and Compliance are overseen by the Chief
Compliance Officer, Chief Risk Officer and the Chief HR Officer who
report to the Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director
(COO and ED), and CEO and MD respectively. At the apex level,
the Audit Committee headed by an Independent Director oversees
compliance to the TCoC, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
and Gift and Hospitality Policy. and to external regulations.

GRI 2-15
GRI 2-11
5
https://www.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct
6
GRI 2-12
3

4

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 139

7 8

TCS’ Approach

Material Topic

TCS is committed to comply with the applicable laws and regulations,
and believes in reporting to the respective tax authority, relevant
information that is complete and accurate, in a timely manner.

Board Oversight
of Sustainability
Matters8

Material Topic
Tax Strategy

7

TCS does not engage in aggressive and contrived tax planning or
tax structuring for the purpose of gaining tax advantages. TCS’s tax
policy is to optimize the tax cost, avail tax incentives where available,
while achieving 100 percent compliance with the spirit as well as
the letter of the tax laws and regulations in all countries in which
it operates. Compliance is achieved through a robust compliance
reporting and monitoring process, with a strong governance on
minimizing the tax risk. TCS has zero tolerance towards tax evasion,
or the facilitation of tax evasion, by itself or by its employees or
vendors.
TCS maintains open and collaborative relationships with governments
and tax authorities worldwide. Where appropriate, TCS seeks advance
clearance from tax authorities on the proposed tax treatment of
transactions, helping pre-empt future disputes.

7
8

TCS’ Approach
TCS’ approach to sustainable growth is built on the belief that it
can expand its business by creating longer term value for all its
stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers and local
communities, while also valuing the environment. The various
sustainability topics material to TCS are overseen by the relevant
Board committees, as outlined below:
Material Sustainability Topics

Board Committee

Financial reporting, robustness of internal
controls, auditor remuneration, compliance to
policies around insider trading, whistle blower,
ethics and Tata Code of Conduct

Audit Committee

Risk management policy and plan,
management of foreign exchange risks,
cyber security risks, data privacy risks and
intellectual property infringements risks

Risk Management
Committee

Recommend composition of Board and its
committees, appointment/re-appointment of
directors and KMP, evaluation of the performance
of the Board, Committees and Directors

Nomination and
Remuneration
Committee

Health and safety at the workplace,
shareholder grievances and other
sustainability initiatives

Stakeholders’
Relationship
Committee

Community initiatives and Corporate Social
Responsibility compliance

Corporate Social
Responsibility
Committee

GRI 207-1
GRI 2-12, GRI 2-14

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 140

Material Topic
Succession
planning

•

TCS’ Approach
TCS’ philosophy of empowering employees, its industry-leading
talent retention, and a decentralized organization structure that
devolves executive decision-making across over 150 business units
have resulted in a large and deep bench of leadership talent that
enables robust succession planning and continuity and consistency in
strategy. Succession planning for the top two leadership positions in
each business unit is reviewed by senior management.
Additionally, heads of business units carry out succession planning for
key functions within their units.

Necessary disclosures regarding Committee positions in other public
companies as on March 31, 2022 have been made by the Directors.
None of the Directors is related to each other except N Ganapathy
Subramaniam and N Chandrasekaran.
iii.

Independent Directors are non-executive directors as defined under
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 149(6)
of the Act along with rules framed thereunder. In terms of Regulation
25(8) of SEBI Listing Regulations, they have confirmed that they are not
aware of any circumstance or situation which exists or may be reasonably
anticipated that could impair or impact their ability to discharge their
duties. Based on the declarations received from the Independent
Directors, the Board of Directors has confirmed that they meet the
criteria of independence as mentioned under Section 149(6) of the Act
and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and that they are
independent of the management. Further, the Independent Directors
have included their names in the data bank of Independent Directors
maintained with the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs in terms of
Section 150 of the Act read with Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment
and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014.

iv.

Succession planning at senior management levels is reviewed by the
Board. Business or unit heads are invited to present on specific topics
at Board meetings from time to time, offering an opportunity to the
directors to assess their values, competencies, and capabilities.

II.

Board of Directors
i.

As on March 31, 2022, the Company has nine Directors. Of the nine
Directors, seven (i.e. 77.8 percent) are Non-Executive Directors out of
which five (i.e. 55.6 percent) are Independent Directors including women
directors. The composition of the Board is in conformity with Regulation
17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with Section 149 and 152 of the
Act.

ii.

None of the Directors on the Board:

who are the Executive Directors serves as independent directors in
more than three listed entities.

•

holds directorships in more than ten public companies;

Five Board Meetings were held during the year under review and the gap
between two meetings did not exceed one hundred and twenty days.
The said meetings were held on:

•

serves as Director or as independent directors in more than seven
listed entities; and

April 12, 2021; July 8, 2021; October 8, 2021; January 12, 2022 and
March 10, 2022. The necessary quorum was present for all the meetings.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 141

v.

The names and categories of the directors on the Board, their attendance at Board Meetings held during the year under review and at the last Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”), name of other listed entities in which the Director is a director and the number of Directorships and Committee Chairmanships/Memberships
held by them in other public limited companies as on March 31, 2022 are given herein below. Other directorships do not include directorships of private limited
companies, foreign companies and companies registered under Section 8 of the Act. Further, none of them is a member of more than ten committees or
chairman of more than five committees across all the public limited companies in which he/she is a director. For the purpose of determination of limit of the Board
Committees, chairpersonship and membership of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee has been considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b)
of SEBI Listing Regulations.

Name of the Director and
DIN

Category

N Chandrasekaran
(Chairman)
DIN 00121863

NonIndependent,
Non-Executive

Rajesh Gopinathan
(Chief Executive Officer and
Managing Director)
DIN 06365813
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
(Chief Operating Officer
and Executive Director)
DIN 07006215

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Number of
Board Meetings
attended during
the FY 2022

Whether
attended last
AGM held on
June 10, 2021

5

Yes

Number of Directorships
in other Public
Companies
Chairman
Member
7
-

Number of Committee
positions held in other Public
Companies
Chairman
Member
-

NonIndependent,
Executive

5

Yes

-

-

-

-

NonIndependent,
Executive

5

Yes

1

2

-

-

Directorship in other listed entity
(Category of Directorship)

1.
2.
3.

4.
5.
6.
-

1.
2.
3.

Tata Steel Limited @
Tata Motors Limited@
Tata Consumer Products Limited
(Formerly known as Tata Global
Beverages Limited) @
The Tata Power Company Limited @
The Indian Hotels Company Limited @
Tata Chemicals Limited @

Tata Elxsi Limited @
Tata Communications Limited @
Tejas Networks Limited @

Corporate Governance Report | 142

Name of the Director and
DIN

Category

Number of
Board Meetings
attended during
the FY 2022

Whether
attended last
AGM held on
June 10, 2021

O P Bhatt
DIN 00548091

Aarthi Subramanian
DIN 07121802

Number of Directorships
in other Public
Companies
Chairman
Member
4

Number of Committee
positions held in other Public
Companies
Chairman
Member
2
5

Directorship in other listed entity
(Category of Directorship)

Independent,
Non-Executive

5

Yes

5

Yes

2

5

1

3

Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla
DIN 03611983

NonIndependent,
Non-Executive
Independent,
Non-Executive

Hindustan Unilever Limited #
Tata Steel Limited #
Tata Motors Limited #
Aadhar Housing Finance Limited
(Debt Listed) #
Tata Capital Limited (Debt Listed) @

5

Yes

-

-

-

-

-

Hanne Sorensen
DIN 08035439
Keki Mistry
DIN 00008886

Independent,
Non-Executive
Independent,
Non-Executive

5

Yes

-

1

-

2

Tata Motors Limited #

5

Yes

1

4

1

5

1.

1.
2.
3.
4.

2.
3.
4.
Don Callahan
DIN 08326836

Independent,
Non-Executive

5

Yes

-

-

-

-

 ousing Development Finance
H
Corporation Limited $
Torrent Power Limited #
HDFC Life Insurance Company
Limited ^
HDFC Asset Management Company
Limited@

-

Category of directorship held:
@Non-Independent, Non-Executive		

# Independent, Non-Executive		

$ Executive Director

^ Nominee, Non-Executive

Due to the exceptional circumstances caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and consequent relaxations granted by MCA and SEBI, all Board meetings in FY 2022 were held
through video conferencing.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 143

vi.

During FY 2022, information as mentioned in Part A of Schedule II of
the SEBI Listing Regulations, has been placed before the Board for its
consideration.

vii. During FY 2022, one meeting of the Independent Directors was held
on April 8, 2021. The Independent Directors, inter-alia, reviewed the
performance of Non-Independent Directors, Board as a whole and
Chairman of the Company, taking into account the views of Executive
Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
viii. The Board periodically reviews the compliance reports of all laws
applicable to the Company.
ix.

Details of equity shares of the Company held by the Directors as on
March 31, 2022 are given below:
Name

Category

N Chandrasekaran

Non-Independent, Non-Executive

1,77,056

Aarthi Subramanian

Non-Independent, Non-Executive

5,600

Rajesh Gopinathan

Non-Independent, Executive

2,760

N Ganapathy Subramaniam Non-Independent, Executive

1,97,760

Keki Mistry*

Independent, Non-Executive

Number of
equity shares

4,150

x.

The Board has identified the following skills/expertise/competencies
fundamental for the effective functioning of the Company which are
currently available with the Board:
Global Business

Understanding, of global business dynamics, across
various geographical markets, industry verticals and
regulatory jurisdictions.

Strategy and Planning

Appreciation of long-term trends, strategic choices and
experience in guiding and leading management teams
to make decisions in uncertain environments.

Governance

Experience in developing governance practices, serving
the best interests of all stakeholders, maintaining
board and management accountability, building longterm effective stakeholder engagements and driving
corporate ethics and values.

The eligibility of a person to be appointed as a Director of the Company
is dependent on whether the person possesses the requisite skill sets
identified by the Board as above and whether the person is a proven
leader in running a business that is relevant to the Company’s business or
is a proven academician in the field relevant to the Company’s business.
Being an IT service provider, the Company’s business runs across different
industry verticals, geographical markets and is global in nature. The
Directors so appointed are drawn from diverse backgrounds and possess
special skills with regard to the industries/fields from where they come.

*includes shares held jointly with relative
The Company has not issued any convertible instruments.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 144

III. Committees of the Board
i.

There are six Board Committees as on March 31, 2022, details of which are as follows:

Name of the
Committee

Extract of terms of reference

Category and composition

Audit Committee

Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of
Regulation 18 of SEBI Listing Regulations and
Section 177 of the Act.

Name

Category

Keki Mistry (Chairman)

Independent, Non-Executive

O P Bhatt

Independent, Non-Executive

•

Oversight of financial reporting process.

Aarthi Subramanian

•

 eviewing with the management, the annual
R
financial statements and auditors’ report thereon
before submission to the Board for approval.

Non-Independent,
Non- Executive

Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla

Independent, Non-Executive

Hanne Sorensen

Independent, Non-Executive

Don Callahan

Independent, Non-Executive

Other details
•

 our meetings of the Audit Committee were
F
held during the year under review and the gap
between two meetings did not exceed
one hundred and twenty days.

•

 ommittee invites such of the executives as it
C
considers appropriate, representatives of the
statutory auditors and internal auditors, to be
present at its meetings.

•

 he Company Secretary acts as the Secretary
T
to the Audit Committee.

•

 radeep Manohar Gaitonde, Company
P
Secretary is the Compliance Officer to ensure
compliance and effective implementation of the
Insider Trading Code.

•

 valuation of internal financial controls and risk
E
management systems.

•

 ecommendation for appointment, remuneration
R
and terms of appointment of auditors of the
Company.

•

 pprove policies in relation to the implementation
A
of the Insider Trading Code and to supervise
implementation of the same.

•

 uarterly Reports are sent to the members
Q
of the Committee on matters relating to the
Insider Trading Code.

•

 o consider matters with respect to the TCoC,
T
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and
Gift and Hospitality Policy.

•

 he previous AGM of the Company was held
T
on June 10, 2021 and was attended by
Keki Mistry, Chairman of the Audit Committee.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 145

Name of the
Committee

Extract of terms of reference

Nomination and
Remuneration
Committee
(“NRC”)

Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of
Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing Regulations and
Section 178 of the Act.

Stakeholders’
Relationship
Committee
(“SRC”)

•

 ecommend to the Board the setup and
R
composition of the Board and its Committees.

•

 ecommend to the Board the appointment/
R
re-appointment of Directors and Key Managerial
Personnel.

•

 upport the Board and Independent Directors in
S
evaluation of the performance of the Board,
its Committees and individual Directors.

•

 ecommend to the Board the Remuneration
R
Policy for Directors, executive team or
Key Managerial Personnel as well as the rest of
employees.

•

Oversee familiarization programs for Directors.

Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of
Regulation 20 of SEBI Listing Regulations and
Section 178 of the Act.

Category and composition
Name

Category

O P Bhatt (Chairman)

Independent,
Non-Executive

N Chandrasekaran

Non-Independent,
Non-Executive

Hanne Sorensen

Independent,
Non-Executive

Aarthi Subramanian*

Non-Independent,
Non-Executive

•

 wo NRC meetings were held during the year
T
under review.

•

 he Company does not have any Employee
T
Stock Option Scheme.

•

 etails of Performance Evaluation Criteria and
D
Remuneration Policy are provided at
serial no. III (iii) below.

•

 he previous AGM of the Company was held
T
on June 10, 2021 and was attended by
O P Bhatt, Chairman of the NRC.

•

 wo meetings of the SRC were held during the
T
year under review.

•

 etails of Investor complaints and Compliance
D
Officer are provided at serial no. III (ii) below.

•

 he previous AGM of the Company was held
T
on June 10, 2021 and was attended by
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla, Chairman of the
SRC.

*Ceased to be a member of the Committee
w.e.f. October 8, 2021.

Name

Category

Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla
(Chairman)

Independent,
Non-Executive

•

 onsider and resolve the grievances of security
C
holders.

Rajesh Gopinathan

Non-Independent,
Executive

•

 onsider and approve issue of share certificates,
C
transfer and transmission of securities, etc.

Keki Mistry

•

 eview activities with regard to the Health Safety
R
and Sustainability initiatives of the Company.

Independent,
Non-Executive

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Other details

Corporate Governance Report | 146

Name of the
Committee

Extract of terms of reference

Corporate Social
Responsibility
(“CSR”)
Committee

Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of
Section 135 of the Act.

Risk Management
Committee
(“RMC”)

•

 ormulate and recommend to the Board, a CSR
F
Policy indicating the activities to be undertaken by
the Company as specified in Schedule VII to the
Act.

•

 ecommend the amount of expenditure to be
R
incurred on the activities mentioned in the CSR
Policy.

•

Monitor the CSR Policy.

Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of
Regulation 21 of SEBI Listing Regulations.
•

•

 ormulate, monitor and review risk management
F
policy and plan, inter-alia, covering investment of
surplus funds, management of foreign exchange
risks, cyber security risks, data privacy risks and
intellectual property infringements risks.
 pprove addition/deletion of banks from time to
A
time for carrying out Treasury transactions and
delegate the said power to such person as may
deem fit.

Category and composition
Name

Category

N Chandrasekaran
(Chairman)

Non-Independent,
Non-Executive

O P Bhatt

Independent,
Non-Executive

N Ganapathy Subramaniam

Non-Independent,
Executive

Name

Category

Keki Mistry
(Chairman)

Independent,
Non-Executive

Don Callahan

Independent,
Non-Executive

Rajesh Gopinathan

Non-Independent,
Executive

N Ganapathy Subramaniam

Non-Independent,
Executive

V Ramakrishnan*

Chief Financial Officer

Samir Seksaria**

Chief Financial Officer

Other details
•

 hree meetings of the CSR Committee were
T
held during the year under review.

•

 hree Board meetings of TCS Foundation,
T
a Section 8 company which was incorporated
with sole objective of carrying on CSR activities
of the Company were held during the year.

•

 ive meetings of the RMC were held during the
F
year under review.

•

 ortnightly reports on management of foreign
F
exchange risks are made available to the
members of the RMC.

*Ceased to be a member of the Committee consequent
to his retirement w.e.f. April 30, 2021.
**Appointed as a member of this Committee
w.e.f. May 1, 2021.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 147

Name of the
Committee
Executive
Committee

Extract of terms of reference

Category and composition

Detailed review of the following matters which form
part of terms of Executive Committee, were presented
to the Board:

Name

Category

N Chandrasekaran
(Chairman)

Non-Independent,
Non-Executive

•

Business and strategy review;

Rajesh Gopinathan

•

Long-term financial projections and cash flows;

Non-Independent,
Executive

•

 apital and revenue budgets and capital
C
expenditure programmes;

•

 cquisitions, divestments and business
A
restructuring proposals;

•

Senior management succession planning;

•

Any other item as may be decided by the Board.

Other details
The said matters were discussed in various Board
meetings held during the year under review in the
presence of the Executive Committee Members with
the intent to avail expertise of all Board members.

The terms of reference of these committees are available on the website (https://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance)

ii.

Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee-other details
a.

Name, designation and address of Compliance Officer:
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde, Company Secretary
Tata Consultancy Services Limited, 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021, India.
Telephone: +91 22 6778 9595

b.

Details of investor complaints received and redressed during FY 2022 are as follows:
Opening balance

Received during the year
-

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Resolved during the year
87

Closing balance
87

-

Corporate Governance Report | 148

iii. Nomination and Remuneration
Committee-other details
		

Performance Evaluation Criteria for
Independent Directors:
The performance evaluation criteria for
independent directors is determined
by the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee. An indicative list of factors on
which evaluation was carried out includes
participation and contribution by a director,
commitment, effective deployment
of knowledge and expertise, integrity
and maintenance of confidentiality and
independence of behaviour and judgement.

		Remuneration Policy9:
Remuneration policy of the Company is
designed to create a high-performance
culture. It enables the Company to attract,
retain and motivate employees to achieve
results. Our business model promotes
customer centricity and requires employee
mobility to address project needs.
9

The remuneration policy supports such
mobility through pay models that are
compliant to local regulations. In each
country where the Company operates,
the remuneration structure is tailored to
the regulations, practices and benchmarks
prevalent in the IT industry.
The Company pays remuneration by way of
salary, benefits, perquisites and allowances
(fixed component) and commission (variable
component) to its Managing Director and
the Executive Directors. Annual increments
are recommended by the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee within the salary
scale approved by the Board and Members
and are effective April 1, each year.
The Board of Directors, on the
recommendation of the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee, decides the
commission payable to the Managing
Director and the Executive Directors
out of the profits for the financial year
and within the ceilings prescribed under

the Act, based on the Board evaluation
process considering the criteria such as
the performance of the Company as well
as that of the Managing Director and each
Executive Director.
The Company pays sitting fees of ` 30,000
per meeting to its Non-Executive Directors
for attending meetings of the Board and
meetings of committees of the Board.
The Company also pays commission to
the Non-Executive Directors within the
ceiling of 1 percent of the net profits of the
Company as computed under the applicable
provisions of the Act, with the approval
of the Members. The said commission
is decided each year by the Board of
Directors, on the recommendation of the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
and distributed amongst the
Non-Executive Directors based on the
Board evaluation process, considering
criteria such as their attendance and
contribution at the Board and Committee
meetings, as well as the time spent

GRI 2-19

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 149

		

on operational matters other than at meetings. The Company also
reimburses the out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Directors for
attending the meetings. The Remuneration policy is available on
https://on.tcs.com/remuneration-policy.
iv.

Details of the Remuneration for the year ended March 31, 2022:

		a)

Non-Executive Directors:
Name
N Chandrasekaran, Chairman@
O P Bhatt
Aarthi Subramanian@@

(` lakh)
Commission

Sitting Fees

-

3.0

250.0

4.5

-

3.3

Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla

225.0

3.6

Hanne Sorensen

225.0

3.6

Keki Mistry

250.0

5.1

Don Callahan
Total

225.0

4.5

1,175.0

27.6

@ As a policy, N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from
receiving commission from the Company.
@@ In line with the internal guidelines of the Company, no payment
is made towards commission to the Non-Executive Directors of
the Company, who are in full time employment with any other
Tata Company.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

b)

Managing Director and Executive Director

(` lakh)

Name of Director

Salary

Benefits,
Perquisites
and Allowances

Commission

ESPS*

Rajesh Gopinathan
Chief Executive Officer and
Managing Director
(appointed for a period of 5 years
w.e.f. February 21, 2017 to February
20, 2022 and re-appointed for a
further period of five years w.e.f.
February 21, 2022 to February 20,
2027)

151.5

225.1

2,200.0

-

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
Chief Operating Officer and
Executive Director
(appointed for a period of 5 years
w.e.f. February 21, 2017 to February
20, 2022 and re-appointed for a
further period from February 21,
2022 to May 19, 2024)

144.3

224.6

1,700.0

-

*Employee Stock Purchase Scheme
The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and
premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation/premium
paid are not available.
Services of the Managing Director and Executive Director may be terminated by
either party, giving the other party six months’ notice or the Company paying
six months’ salary in lieu thereof. There is no separate provision for payment of
severance pay.
Corporate Governance Report | 150

v.

Number of committee meetings held and attendance records

Name of the Committee
No. of meetings held
Date of meetings

Audit Committee

Nomination and
Remuneration Committee

Stakeholders’
Relationship Committee

Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee

Risk Management
Committee

4

2

2

3

5

April 12, 2021;
July 8, 2021;
October 8, 2021 and
January 12, 2022

April 12, 2021 and
October 8, 2021

July 22, 2021 and
January 28, 2022

April 9, 2021;
August 19, 2021 and
October 21, 2021@

April 6, 2021;
July 2, 2021;
October 6, 2021;
January 3, 2022 and
March 25, 2022

No. of Meetings Attended
Name of Member
N Chandrasekaran

-

2

-

3

-

Rajesh Gopinathan

-

-

2

-

5

O P Bhatt

4

2

-

3

-

N Ganapathy Subramaniam

-

-

-

3

5
-

Aarthi Subramanian*

4

2

-

-

Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla

4

-

2

-

-

Hanne Sorensen

4

2

-

-

-

Keki Mistry

4

-

2

-

5

Don Callahan

4

-

-

-

5

V Ramakrishnan**

-

-

-

-

1

Samir Seksaria***

-

-

-

-

4

Whether quorum was present for all the meetings

The necessary quorum was present for all the above committee meetings

@ TCS Foundation, a Section 8 company incorporated in 2015 with sole objective of carrying on CSR activities of the Company, has held three meetings during the
FY 2022
* Aarthi Subramanian ceased to be a member of the NRC w.e.f. October 8, 2021
** V Ramakrishnan ceased to be a member of the RMC w.e.f. April 30, 2021
*** Samir Seksaria was appointed as member of the RMC w.e.f. May 1, 2021
Due to the exceptional circumstances caused by the COVID-19 pandemic all committee meetings in FY 2022 were held through video conferencing.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 151

IV. General Body Meetings
i.

ii.

General Meeting
a.

Annual General Meeting (“AGM”):
Financial Year

b.

Date

2019

June 13, 2019

2020

June 11, 2020

2021

June 10, 2021

Time

Venue
Birla Matushri Sabhagar 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey
Marg, New Marine Lines, Mumbai – 400 020

3.30 p.m.

Meeting conducted through Video Conferencing (“VC”)/
Other Audio Video Means (“OAVM”) pursuant to the
MCA Circular

Extraordinary General Meeting:
No extraordinary general meeting of the members was held during FY 2022.

c.

Special resolution:
Special resolution for re-appointment of O P Bhatt as an Independent Director was passed at the
AGM held in 2019 and no special resolution was passed in the previous AGMs held in 2020 and
2021.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Details of special resolution passed through
postal ballot, the persons who conducted
the postal ballot exercise, details of the
voting pattern and procedure of postal
ballot:
The Company had sought the approval
of the shareholders by way of a Special
Resolution through notice of postal ballot
dated January 12, 2022 for buyback of
its equity shares, which was duly passed
and the results of which were
announced on February 12, 2022.
P N Parikh (Membership No. FCS 327) of
Parikh & Associates, Practising Company
Secretaries, was appointed as the
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the postal ballot
process by voting through electronic
means only (remote e-voting) in a fair and
transparent manner.

Corporate Governance Report | 152

Description of the
Resolution

Approval for Buyback
of Equity Shares

Votes in favour of the resolution

Votes against the resolution

Invalid votes

Number of
members voted

Number of
valid votes cast
(Shares)

Percentage of
total number of
valid votes cast

Number of
members
voted

Number of
valid votes cast
(Shares)

Percentage of
total number of
valid votes cast

Total number of
members whose
votes were
declared invalid

Total number
of invalid votes
cast (Shares)

13,474

3,42,48,03,887

99.67

823

1,12,58,517

0.33

0

0

Procedure for postal ballot: The postal ballot was carried out as per the provisions of Sections 108 and 110 and other applicable provisions of the Act,
read with the Rules framed thereunder and read with the General Circular nos. 14/2020, 17/2020, 02/2021 and 21/2021 dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020,
January 13, 2021 and December 14, 2021 respectively issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
iii.

Details of special resolution proposed to be conducted through postal ballot:
None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the ensuing AGM requires passing of a special resolution through postal ballot.

V.

A certificate has been received from Parikh & Associates, Practising Company
Secretaries, that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company has
been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors
of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of
Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.

VI. B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration No. 101248W/W–100022) has been appointed as the

Statutory Auditors of the Company. The particulars of payment of Statutory
Auditors’ fees, on consolidated basis for FY 2022 is given below:
(` lakh)
Particulars

910.1

Tax audit

66.9

Services for tax matters

21.5

Other matters

371.0

Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses

70.8

Total

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Amount

Services as statutory auditors (including quarterly audits)

1,440.3

Corporate Governance Report | 153

VII. Other Disclosures
Particulars
Related party transactions

Statutes

Details

Regulation 23 of SEBI Listing
Regulations and as defined
under the Act

There are no material related party transactions during the year under review
that have conflict with the interest of the Company. Transactions entered into
with related parties during FY 2022 were in the ordinary course of business and
at arms’ length basis and were approved by the members of Audit Committee
including Independent Directors.

Website link for details/policy
https://on.tcs.com/RPT

The Board’s approved policy for related party transactions is uploaded on the
website of the Company.
Details of non-compliance by the
Company, penalty, strictures imposed on
the Company by the stock exchange, or
Securities and Exchange Board of India
or any statutory authority on any matter
related to capital markets during the last
three financial years.

Schedule V (C) 10(b) to the
SEBI Listing Regulations

NIL

Whistle Blower Policy and
Vigil Mechanism

Regulation 22 of SEBI Listing
Regulations

The Company has this Policy and has established the necessary vigil mechanism
for directors and employees to report concerns about unethical behaviour.
No person has been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The said policy has been uploaded on the website of the Company.

Discretionary requirements

Schedule II Part E of the SEBI
Listing Regulations

•

 message from the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director on the
A
half-yearly financial performance of the Company including a summary of
the significant events in the six month period ended September 30, 2021
was sent to every member.

•

 he auditors’ report on financial statements of the Company are
T
unmodified.

•

Internal auditors of the Company make quarterly presentations to
the Audit Committee on their reports.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP

Corporate Governance Report | 154

Particulars
Subsidiary Companies

Statutes
Regulation 24 of the SEBI
Listing Regulations

Details
The Audit Committee reviews the consolidated financial statements of the
Company and the investments made by its unlisted subsidiary companies.
The minutes of the Board meetings along with a report on significant
developments of the unlisted subsidiary companies are periodically placed before
the Board of Directors of the Company.

Website link for details/policy
https://on.tcs.com/Subsidiary

The Company does not have any material unlisted subsidiary company.
The Company has a policy for determining ‘material subsidiaries’ which is
disclosed on its website.
Policy on Determination of Materiality
for Disclosures

Regulation 30 of
SEBI Listing Regulations

The Company has adopted this policy.

https://on.tcs.com/Material

Policy on Archival and Preservation of
Documents

Regulation 9 of
SEBI Listing Regulations

The Company has adopted this policy.

https://on.tcs.com/Archival

Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit
Report

Regulation 76 of the
Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Depositories
and Participants) Regulations,
2018 and SEBI Circular No.
D&CC/FITTC/Cir-16/2002
dated December 31, 2002.

A practising Company Secretary carried out a share capital audit to reconcile
the total admitted equity share capital with the National Securities Depository
Limited (“NSDL”) and the Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”)
and the total issued and listed equity share capital. The audit report confirms
that the total issued/paid-up capital is in agreement with the total number of
shares in physical form and the total number of dematerialized shares held with
NSDL and CDSL.

https://www.tcs.com/ircorporate-governance

Code of Conduct

Regulation 17 of the SEBI
Listing Regulations

The members of the Board and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed
compliance with the Code of Conduct applicable to them during the year ended
March 31, 2022.  A certificate by the Chief Executive Officer and Managing
Director, on the compliance declarations received from the members of the
Board and Senior Management forms part of this report.

https://www.tcs.com/tata-codeof-conduct

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 155

Particulars
Dividend Distribution Policy

Statutes

Details

Regulation 43A of the SEBI
Listing Regulations

A regular annual dividend generally consists of three interim dividends after each
of the first three quarters of the fiscal year, topped up with a final dividend after
the fourth quarter.

Website link for details/policy
https://on.tcs.com/Dividend

In addition, every second or third year, the accumulated surplus cash has been
returned to shareholders through a special dividend.
Terms of Appointment of Independent
Directors

Regulation 46 of SEBI Listing
Regulations and Section 149
read with Schedule IV to the
Act

Terms and conditions of appointment/re-appointment of Independent Directors
are available on the Company’s website.

https://on.tcs.com/ApptID

Familiarization Program

Regulations 25(7) and 46 of
SEBI Listing Regulations

Details of familiarization program imparted to Independent Directors are
available on the Company’s website.

https://on.tcs.com/familiarizationprogramme

Disclosure under the Sexual Harassment
of Women at Workplace (Prevention,
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2018

Section 134 of the
Companies Act, 2013 read
with Rule 8 of the Companies
(Accounts) Rules, 2014

The details have been disclosed in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability
Report forming part of the Integrated Annual Report.

VIII. Means of Communication
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results of the Company are published in leading newspapers in India which include The Indian Express, Financial Express,
Loksatta, Business Standard, The Hindu Business Line, Hindustan Times and Sandesh. The results are also displayed on the Company’s website www.tcs.com.
Statutory notices are published in The Free Press Journal, Business Standard and Navshakti. The Company also issues press releases from time to time. Financial Results,
Statutory Notices, Press Releases and Presentations made to the institutional investors/analysts after the declaration of the quarterly, half-yearly and annual results are
submitted to the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE) as well as uploaded on the Company’s website. Frequently Asked Questions
(FAQs) giving details about the Company and its shares is uploaded on the Company’s website https://www.tcs.com/investor-relations. The Management Discussion and
Analysis Report is a part of the Integrated Annual Report.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 156

IX. General shareholder information
i.

vi. Stock Codes/Symbol

Annual General Meeting for FY 2022

NSE

: TCS

Date

: June 9, 2022

BSE

: 532540

Time

: 3.30 p.m. (IST)

Listing Fees as applicable have been paid.

Venue : Meeting is being conducted through VC/OAVM pursuant to the
MCA Circular dated May 5, 2020 read with general circulars dated
April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, January 13, 2021 and December
14, 2021 as such there is no requirement to have a venue for the
AGM.

vii. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) : L22210MH1995PLC084781
		
of the Company
viii. Market Price Data:
High, Low (based on daily closing prices) and number of equity shares
traded during each month in FY 2022 on NSE and BSE:

For details, please refer to the Notice of this AGM.
As required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and
Secretarial Standard 2 on General Meetings, particulars of Directors
seeking re-appointment at this AGM are given in the Annexure to the
Notice of this AGM.
ii.

v.

Apr-2021

3,322.25

3,035.65

6,13,28,558

3,322.20

3,038.40

33,77,869

May-2021

3,180.00

3,037.00

4,35,38,924

3,180.20

3,037.00

14,87,104

Jun-2021

3,380.80

3,129.45

4,50,79,239

3,380.70

3,129.30

41,47,717

: The final dividend, if approved, shall be
paid/credited on Monday, June 13, 2022

Jul-2021

3,341.50

3,167.45

4,43,49,890

3,341.00

3,167.50

28,94,265

Aug-2021

3,786.45

3,219.40

5,66,78,047

3,786.55

3,217.90

23,77,544

: As mentioned in the Notice of this AGM

Sep-2021

3,954.55

3,714.95

5,05,65,601

3,954.80

3,714.05

26,14,393

Oct-2021

3,935.65

3,397.75

7,12,51,894

3,935.30

3,398.80

46,97,020

Nov-2021

3,556.40

3,443.30

4,32,67,875

3,555.15

3,443.55

17,32,795

Dec-2021

3,738.35

3,536.40

4,47,24,473

3,736.85

3,534.35

20,13,929

Jan-2022

4,019.15

3,649.25

6,63,32,036

4,019.10

3,650.10

40,59,762

Feb-2022

3,856.20

3,401.65

6,69,67,591

3,857.00

3,402.25

41,93,160

Mar-2022

3,749.85

3,484.90

5,05,59,459

3,750.00

3,485.30

22,34,459

: March 31

AGM in

: June

Listing on Stock Exchanges : National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai 400 051
BSE Limited
P. J. Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

BSE

Low (`)

Year ending

iv.	Date of Book Closure/
Record Date

NSE
High (`)

Financial Calendar

iii. Dividend Payment

Month

Total number of
equity shares
traded

High (`)

Low (`)

Total number of
equity shares
traded

Corporate Governance Report | 157

ix. Performance of the share price of the Company in comparison to the
BSE Sensex:
TCS Share price and BSE Sensex Movement
140.00

Documents will be accepted at the above address between 10.00 a.m. and
3.30 p.m. (Monday to Friday except bank holidays).
For the convenience of the shareholders, documents will also be accepted
at the following branches of TCPL:

130.00
120.00
110.00

		Branches of TCPL:

100.00
90.00

Place

80.00
70.00
60.00
Apr-21 May-21 Jun-21 Jul-21 Aug-21 Sep-21 Oct-21 Nov-21 Dec-21 Jan-22 Feb-22 Mar-22
TCS Share Price

Name and Address

Phone/Fax/Email

Mumbai

TSR Consultants Private Limited
Building 17/19, Office no. 415
Rex Chambers, Ballard Estate,
Walchand Hirachand Marg,
Fort, Mumbai-400 001.

Tel: +91 7304874606

Bengaluru

TSR Consultants Private Limited
C/o. D. Nagendra Rao
“Vaghdevi” 543/A, 7th Main
3rd Cross, Hanumanthnagar
Bengaluru-560 019

Tel: +91 80 26509004
Email: tcplbang@tcplindia.co.in

Kolkata

TSR Consultants Private Limited
C/o Link Intime India Private Limited
Vaishno Chamber, Flat No. 502 and
503 5th Floor, 6, Brabourne Road
Kolkata-700 001

Tel: +91 33 40081986
Email: tcplcal@tcplindia.co.in

BSE Sensex

Base 100 = Thursday, April 1, 2021

		
x.

xi. Places for acceptance of documents:

Registrar and Transfer Agents
Name and Address
: TSR Consultants Private Limited (TCPL)
(formerly known as TSR Darashaw Consultants
Private Limited)
C-101, 1st Floor, 247 Park,
Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg,
Vikhroli West, Mumbai 400 083
Telephone: +91 22 6656 8484
Extn: 411/412/413
Fax: +91 22 6656 8494
E-mail: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in
Website: https://www.tcplindia.co.in

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 158

Place
New Delhi

Jamshedpur

Ahmedabad

Name and Address

Phone/Fax/Email

TSR Consultants Private Limited
C/o Link Intime India Private Limited
Noble Heights, 1st Floor
Plot No NH-2, C-1 Block, LSC
Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri
New Delhi – 110 058

Tel: +91 11 49411030
Email: tcpldel@tcplindia.co.in

TSR Consultants Private Limited
Bungalow No. 1, ‘E’ Road,
Northern Town Bistupur,
Jamshedpur-831 001

Tel: +91 657 2426937
Email: tcpljsr@tcplindia.co.in

TSR Consultants Private Limited
C/o Link Intime India Private Limited
Amarnath Business Centre-1 (ABC-1)
Beside Gala Business Centre
Nr. St. Xavier’s College Corner
Off. C.G. Road, Ellisbridge
Ahmedabad-380 006

Tel: +91 79 26465179
Email: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in

xiii. Shareholding as on March 31, 2022:

xii. Share Transfer System:
In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended
from time to time, securities can be transferred only in dematerialized
form with effect from April 1, 2019, except in case of request received for
transmission or transposition of securities. Further, SEBI had fixed
March 31, 2021 as the cut-off date for re-lodgement of transfer deeds
and the shares that are re-lodged for transfer shall be issued only in
dematerialised mode. The requests for effecting transfer/transmission/
transposition of securities shall not be processed unless the securities are
held in the dematerialised form. Transfers of equity shares in electronic
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

form are effected through the depositories with no involvement of the
Company. Members holding shares in physical form are requested to
consider converting their holdings to dematerialized form. The Directors
and certain Company officials (including Chief Financial Officer and
Company Secretary) are authorized by the Board severally to approve
transfers, which are noted at subsequent Board.

		a)

Distribution of equity shareholding as on March 31, 2022:

Number of
shares

Holding

Percentage
to capital

Number of
accounts

Percentage to
total accounts

1-100

4,94,29,417

1.4

22,98,580

88.9

101-500

4,90,43,599

1.3

2,41,970

9.4

501-1000

1,80,30,724

0.5

25,233

1.0

1001-5000

3,25,02,667

0.9

16,826

0.7

5001-10000

1,08,79,779

0.3

1,540

0.0

10001-20000

1,08,42,206

0.3

767

0.0

20001-30000

78,07,860

0.2

317

0.0

30001-40000

59,50,035

0.2

171

0.0

40001- 50000

61,22,962

0.2

135

0.0

50001 -100000

2,66,88,649

0.7

370

0.0

100001-above

344,17,53,475

94.0

853

0.0

TOTAL

365,90,51,373

100.0

25,86,762

100.0

Corporate Governance Report | 159

		b)

Categories of equity shareholding as on March 31, 2022:
Category
Promoter
Other Entities of the Promoter Group
Mutual Funds and UTI
Banks, Financial Institutions, State and Central
Government

		

Number of equity
shares held

Percentage
of holding

264,43,17,117

72.3

10,68,956

0.0

11,79,36,971

3.2

29,22,193

0.1

Insurance Companies

16,38,02,109

4.5

Foreign Institutional Investors and Foreign
Portfolio Investors

51,77,29,951

14.1

NRI’s, OCB’s, Foreign Nationals

70,93,699

0.2

Corporate Bodies, Trusts

2,85,33,267

0.8

Indian Public and Others

17,24,88,089

4.7

Alternate Investment Fund

26,02,619

0.1

IEPF account

5,56,402

0.0

365,90,51,373

100.0

TOTAL

c)

Top ten equity shareholders of the Company as on March 31, 2022:
Sr.
No.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8
9
10

Name of the shareholders*
Tata Sons Private Limited
Life Insurance Corporation of India
SBI Mutual Fund
Invesco Developing Markets Fund
Axis Mutual Fund
NPS Trust
Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock
Index Fund, A Series of Vanguard
International Equity Index Funds
Government of Singapore
Vanguard Total International Stock
Index Fund
UTI Mutual Fund

Number of equity
shares held
264,43,17,117
13,51,44,680
3,11,90,218
3,10,72,921
2,35,05,274
1,44,43,818
1,41,43,562

Percentage of
holding
72.3
3.7
0.9
0.9
0.6
0.4
0.4

1,36,41,333
1,30,13,618

0.4
0.4

1,16,88,173

0.3

*Shareholding is consolidated based on Permanent Account Number
(PAN) of the shareholder.
xiv. Dematerialization of shares and liquidity:
The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialized form on
NSE and BSE. Equity shares of the Company representing
99.97 percent of the Company’s equity share capital are dematerialized
as on March 31, 2022. Under the Depository System, the International
Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted to the Company’s shares
is INE467B01029.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Governance Report | 160

xv. Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments,
conversion date and likely impact on equity:
The Company does not have any outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or
any convertible instruments as on March 31, 2022, as such instruments
have not been issued in the past.
xvi. Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities:
The Company does not deal in commodities and hence the disclosure
pursuant to SEBI Circular dated November 15, 2018 is not required to
be given. For a detailed discussion on foreign exchange risk and hedging
activities, please refer to Management Discussion and Analysis Report.
xvii. Equity shares in the suspense account:
In accordance with the requirement of Regulation 34(3) and Part F of
Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations, details of equity shares in the
suspense account are as follows:
Particulars

Number of
Number of
shareholders equity shares

Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding
shares in the suspense account lying as on April 1, 2021

26

1,640

Shareholders who approached the Company for
transfer of shares from suspense account during the
year

-

-

Shareholders to whom shares were transferred from
the suspense account during the year

-

-

Shareholders whose shares are transferred to the
demat account of the IEPF Authority as per
Section 124 of the Act

-

-

Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding
shares in the suspense account lying as on March 31, 2022

26

1,640

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as
on March 31, 2022 shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such
shares claims the shares.
xviii. Transfer of unclaimed/unpaid amounts to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund (IEPF):
Pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 of the Act read with the Investor
Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and
Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), dividend, if not claimed for a period of
seven years from the date of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account of the
Company, are liable to be transferred to IEPF.
Further, all the shares in respect of which dividend has remained
unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more from the date of transfer
to unpaid dividend account shall also be transferred to IEPF Authority.
The said requirement does not apply to shares in respect of which there
is a specific order of Court, Tribunal or Statutory Authority, restraining
any transfer of the shares.
In the interest of the shareholders, the Company sends periodical
reminders to the shareholders to claim their dividends in order to avoid
transfer of dividends/shares to IEPF Authority. Notices in this regard are
also published in the newspapers and the details of unclaimed dividends
and shareholders whose shares are liable to be transferred to the IEPF
Authority, are uploaded on the Company’s website
https://on.tcs.com/unclaimed-dividend.
In light of the aforesaid provisions, the Company has during the year,
transferred to IEPF the unclaimed dividends, outstanding for seven years,
of the Company, erstwhile CMC Limited
(since amalgamated with the Company). Further, shares of the Company,
Corporate Governance Report | 161

in respect of which dividend has not been claimed for seven consecutive
years or more from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend account, have
also been transferred to the demat account of IEPF Authority.
The details of unclaimed dividends and shares transferred to IEPF during
FY 2022 are as follows:
Financial year

Amount of
unclaimed dividend
transferred
(` lakh)

Number of shares
transferred

2013-14

183.46*

9,080

2014-15

444.92

16,481

TOTAL

628.38

25,561

		a.

For shareholders of TCS:
Financial Year

The following tables give information relating to various outstanding
dividends and the dates by which they can be claimed by the shareholders
from the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent:

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Last date for
claiming unpaid
dividend

2014-15

June 30, 2015

July 30, 2022

2015-16

July 9, 2015

August 9, 2022

October 13, 2015

November 12, 2022

January 12, 2016

February 11, 2023

June 17, 2016

July 17, 2023

July 14, 2016

August 15, 2023

October 13, 2016

November 16, 2023

January 12, 2017

February 12, 2024

June 16, 2017

July 16, 2024

July 13, 2017

August 13, 2024

October 12, 2017

November 12, 2024

January 11, 2018

February 10, 2025

June 15, 2018

July 15, 2025

July 10, 2018

August 9, 2025

October 11, 2018

November 10, 2025

January 10, 2019

February 9, 2026

June 13, 2019

July 13, 2026

2016-17

*Includes final dividend of erstwhile CMC Limited
The Members who have a claim on above dividends and shares may claim
the same from IEPF Authority by submitting an online application in web
Form No. IEPF-5 available on the website www.iepf.gov.in and sending
a physical copy of the same, duly signed to the Company, along with
requisite documents enumerated in the web Form No. IEPF-5.
No claims shall lie against the Company in respect of the dividend/shares
so transferred.

Date of declaration

2017-18

2018-19

Corporate Governance Report | 162

Financial Year

2019-20

2020-21

2021-22

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Date of declaration

Last date for
claiming unpaid
dividend

		b.

For shareholders of erstwhile CMC Limited which has since
amalgamated with the Company:
Financial Year

Date of declaration

Last date for
claiming unpaid
dividend

July 9, 2019

August 8, 2026

October 10, 2019

November 9, 2026

January 17, 2020

February 16, 2027

2014-15

June 11, 2015

July 10, 2022

March 10, 2020

April 9, 2027

2015-16

July 16, 2015

August 18, 2022

June 11, 2020

July 11, 2027

July 9, 2020

August 8, 2027

October 7, 2020

November 6, 2027

January 8, 2021

February 7, 2028

June 10, 2021

July 10, 2028

July 8, 2021

August 7, 2028

October 8, 2021

November 7, 2028

January 12, 2022

February 11, 2029

xix. Plant locations:
In view of the nature of the Company’s business viz. Information
Technology (IT) Services and IT Enabled Services, the Company
operates from various offices in India and abroad. The Company has
a manufacturing facility at 17-B, Tivim Industrial Estate, Karaswada,
Mapusa– Bardez, Goa.
xx. Address for correspondence:
		

Tata Consultancy Services Limited
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021, India
Telephone: +91 22 6778 9595
Designated e-mail address for Investor Services: investor.relations@tcs.com
For queries on IEPF related matters: iepf.assist@tcs.com
Website: www.tcs.com

Corporate Governance Report | 163

DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY
BOARD MEMBERS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
PERSONNEL WITH THE COMPANY’S CODE OF
CONDUCT
This is to confirm that the Company has adopted
a Code of Conduct for its employees including the
Managing Director and Executive Directors.
In addition, the Company has adopted a Code
of Conduct for its Non-Executive Directors and
Independent Directors. These Codes are available on
the Company’s website.
I confirm that the Company has in respect of the
year ended March 31, 2022, received from the
Senior Management Team of the Company and the
Members of the Board a declaration of compliance
with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them.
For the purpose of this declaration,
Senior Management Team means the
Chief Financial Officer, Global Head-HR, Global
Business Unit Heads, Global Head-Legal and the
Company Secretary as on March 31, 2022.
Rajesh Gopinathan
Chief Executive Officer and
Managing Director
DIN: 06365813
Mumbai, April 11, 2022
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To the Members of
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
We have examined the compliance of the conditions
of Corporate Governance by Tata Consultancy
Services Limited (‘the Company’) for the year ended
on March 31, 2022, as stipulated under Regulations
17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub- regulation
(2) of Regulation 46 and para C, D and E of
Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing
Regulations”).
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate
Governance is the responsibility of the management
of the Company. Our examination was limited to the
review of procedures and implementation thereof,
as adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance
with conditions of Corporate Governance. It is
neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the
financial statements of the Company.

spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, we certify that
the Company has complied with the conditions of
Corporate Governance as stipulated in the SEBI
Listing Regulations for the year ended on March 31,
2022.
We further state that such compliance is neither an
assurance as to the future viability of the Company
nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which
the management has conducted the affairs of the
Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Practising Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh
Partner
FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228
UDIN: F000327D000063214
PR No.: 1129/2021
Mumbai, April 11, 2022

In our opinion and to the best of our information
and according to the explanations given to us, and
the representations made by the Directors and the
Management and considering the relaxations granted
by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Securities
and Exchange Board of India warranted due to the
Corporate Governance Report | 164

CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
9th Floor, Nirmal Building,
Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021

been debarred or disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as Directors of companies by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry
of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory
Authority.

We have examined the relevant registers, records,
forms, returns and disclosures received from the
Directors of Tata Consultancy Services Limited
having CIN L22210MH1995PLC084781 and
having registered office at 9th Floor, Nirmal Building,
Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 (hereinafter
referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before
me/us by the Company for the purpose of issuing
this Certificate, in accordance with
Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C
Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.

Sr. Name of Director
No.

In our opinion and to the best of our information and
according to the verifications (including Directors
Identification Number (DIN) status at the portal
www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and
explanations furnished to us by the Company & its
officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors
on the Board of the Company as stated below for
the Financial Year ending on March 31, 2022 have
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

DIN

Date of
Appointment in
Company *

1.

N Chandrasekaran

00121863 September 6, 2007

2.

Rajesh Gopinathan

06365813

February 21, 2017

3.

N Ganapathy
Subramaniam

07006215

February 21, 2017

4.

O P Bhatt

00548091

April 2, 2012

5.

Aarthi Subramanian

07121802

March 12, 2015

6.

Dr. Pradeep Kumar
Khosla

03611983

January 11, 2018

7.

Hanne Sorensen

08035439

December 18,
2018

8.

Keki Mistry

00008886

December 18,
2018

9.

Don Callahan

08326836

January 10, 2019

Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/
continuity of every Director on the Board is the
responsibility of the management of the Company.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
based on our verification. This certificate is neither an
assurance as to the future viability of the Company
nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which
the management has conducted the affairs of the
Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Practising Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh
Partner
FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228
UDIN: F000327D000063379
PR No.: 1129/2021
Mumbai, April 11, 2022

*the date of appointment is as per the MCA Portal.
Corporate Governance Report | 165

AWARDS AND
ACCOLADES

Intellectual Capital
•

Recognized for Best Patents Portfolio in the
Large Enterprise category at the Confederation
of Indian Industry Industrial Intellectual
Property Awards 2021.

•

Won the 2021 ASSOCHAM IP Excellence
Award for pioneering efforts in facilitating
innovations and creating a healthy intellectual
property (IP) ecosystem.

•

TCS CodeVita awarded a Guinness World
Records™ title as the world’s largest computer
programming competition with 136,054
participants from 34 countries.

•

Awarded Best Technical Implementation
for AI at the 5th Global Annual Achievement
Awards for Artificial Intelligence for re-imagining
pharmacovigilance by applying machine vision,
artificial intelligence, smart analytics and IoT to
automate the intake, processing and analysis of
safety cases.

•

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

TCS Optumera™ won the Best Self Aware
Strategic Planning Product at the 2021 AI
Excellence Awards for continuously monitoring
thousands of customer-, market-, and vendorbehaviors; model scenarios and customer
behavior to enable businesses in making AIenabled integrated decisions.

•

Won the Artificial Intelligence Breakthrough
Award in the category Best AI-based Solution
– Retail for TCS Optunique™ for its ability to
deliver unified and contextualized experiences
across the omnichannel journey by evaluating
customer intent in real time.

•

TCS Optunique™, awarded the Best Theory of
Mind Machine Learning Product at the 2021
AI Excellence Awards for its ability to drive
unified personalized experiences across the
omnichannel journey.

•

TCS’ Data Marketplace Solution for COVID-19
awarded at the 19th Asian IT Leadership Awards
2021 under the Best Use of IT in Healthcare
category.

•

Recognized as an ‘Innovator’ at NASSCOM AI
Gamechangers 2021 in the Use of AI for Public
Services Category for its innovative AI-based
Sanitation Inspection system.

•

Won 4 Stevie awards for innovation and IP at
the International Business Awards 2021:
o

Gold Stevie for ‘Most Innovative Tech
Company’ in the ‘more than 2500
employees’ category.

o

Gold Stevie for TCS TwinX™ in the
Business Technology Solution category –
AI/ML solution.
Awards and Accolades | 166

o

Silver Stevie for TCS Omnistore™ in the
Business Technology Solution category –
Emerging Technology.

•

TCS’ PredictCX won ‘Most Innovative Best
Practice’ Award under the customer experience
category at the CII DX Awards 2021.

o

Bronze Stevie for TCS’ Data Exchange
Platform in the Most Valuable Technical
Innovation – COVID-19 Response
category.

•

TCS’ Risk Analytics Solution won Best Data
Science Solution Award at the A-Team Group’s
Data Management Insight Awards 2021.

•

Awarded the Enterprise Blockchain Award
2021 by the Blockchain Research Institute.

•

Won two awards at the IoT Global Awards
2021: for TCS DigiFleet™ in the Automotive,
Transport and Travel category and for TCS
Smart Store in the Retail, Marketing and
Hospitality category.

•

•

•

TCS ADD Regulatory platform won the India
Pharma Awards 2021 in the category of
Excellence in Ancillary Pharma Services.
Two TCS-built solutions featured in the 2021
ISG Digital Digital Case Study Awards: TCS’
Digital Twin Platform for Saipem won the
Energy and Utilities Standout Award as well as
the Southern Europe regional standout award;
the TCS’ digital transformation work for Shell
won the ANZ regional standout award.
TCS TwinX won the 2022 AI Excellence Award
under the Product category.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

•

•

TCS’ Digital Platform for Next-Generation
Agriculture Services (DNA) won the award for
Excellence in IT Services for Large Enterprise
at the IMC Digital Technology Awards, 2020
for seamlessly bringing together knowledge,
actionable insights, farm-input sources, and
commerce centers to bridge demand-supply and
holistically address problems in the agricultural
supply-chain ecosystem.
Won 6 Stevies® – 5 gold and 1 silver – at
the 2021 Asia-Pacific Stevie Awards for
driving innovation in finance, human resources,
and technology, igniting organization-wide
transformation, and quickly addressing the
requirements of operating during COVID-19.

Human Capital
•

•

Won the award for ‘Role Model in HR
Excellence’ at the 12th CII National HR
Excellence Awards.
Ranked #1 in the LinkedIn Top Companies
list of the best workplaces for career growth in

India. TCS topped the list in measures of ability
to advance, skills growth, company stability,
external opportunity, company affinity, gender
diversity and spread of educational backgrounds.
•

Recognized as 2022 Global Top Employer for
the seventh year in a row by the Top Employers
Institute.

•

Won 3 awards at the 2021 LinkedIn Talent
Awards India in the categories: Best Employer
Brand on LinkedIn, Best Culture of Learning,
and Diversity Champion.

•

Recognized at the Wequity Awards 2022 in
“The Equalizer” category for empowering
women technologists, creating a gender-neutral
workplace and persistently driving diversity,
equity, and inclusion initiatives.

•

Won the National HRD Network’s Gold Award
for Excellence in Performance Management
Process and Technology.

•

Xcelerate won Gold in the HR Excellence
Awards for best HR Technology Strategy.

•

Listed among the top 25 Best Big Companies
to Work For in the UK and among the Best
Companies in the consultancy sector by the
Best Companies organization for prioritizing
Awards and Accolades | 167

the health and wellness of its employees and
investments in organic talent development.
•

Won the ATD Best of Best Award for HR
and Talent Development Ecosystem and
Innovations.

•

Won a Gold Stevie for Best use of People
Analytics and Talent Management and
Transformation.

•

Ranked #3 in BT-Taggd survey of the Best
Companies to Work For in India.

•

Won 5 awards at the Economic Times Human
Capital Awards, in the categories: Excellence
in Communication Strategy, Excellence in
Creating a Culture of Continuous Learning and
Upskilling, Excellence in Fostering Innovation
and Design Thinking, Excellence in HR Digital
Transformation and Excellence in Recruitment
of Professionals.

•

Won 14 Gold Medals, 3 Silvers and 3
Bronzes at the 2021 Brandon Hall Group
Excellence in Learning Awards, across
Leadership Development (4 Golds), Learning
& Development (3 Golds, 2 Silvers), Diversity,
Equity and Inclusion (3 Golds, 1 Silver),
Talent Acquisition (2 Golds, 1 Bronze), Talent
Management (1 Gold, 1 Bronze), Workforce
Planning & Management (1 Gold) and Sales
Training (1 Bronze).

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Relationship Capital

•

BRAND BUILDING
•

•

Recognized by Brand Finance as the second
most valuable brand in IT services globally,
moving up one place in 2021. TCS’ new brand
articulation ‘Building on Belief’ has resonated
strongly with customers and helped the
company expand its participation in their growth
and transformation initiatives.
Named a UK Superbrand for the seventh
consecutive year in recognition of TCS’
exceptional business growth, its position as the
top strategic IT player by revenue in the UK, its
number one ranking in customer satisfaction,
and its community initiatives.

•

Recognized as a Superbrand in Singapore for its
strong market reputation, digital initiatives and
business growth.

•

Awarded two Diamond awards at the 2021
ITSMA Marketing Excellence Awards in the
categories – Embedding ABM Programs and
Orchestrating Executive Engagement.

•

Won 3 gold and 2 bronze Eventex Awards for
its ThisRun campaign and the Virgin Money
London Marathon Event App, as well as for
excellence across marketing and customer
engagement.

Won the 2021 Economic Times Best Brand of
UAE award for brand reputation in the Middle
East region.

CUSTOMER
•

Ranked #1 in customer satisfaction across
Europe, for the ninth consecutive year, in the
largest independent survey of 1,800 CxOs
from top IT spending organizations in Europe
by Whitelane Research. TCS was ranked #1 in
UK, France, Netherlands, BeLux, Switzerland,
Sweden, Norway and Finland.

•

Won 3 awards in partnership with clients at
the DevOps Excellence Awards 2022 in UK
for Best Automation Project (with Aviva),
Best Use of Compliance as Code (with
Nationwide Building Society) and Best Use of
Microservices/Containers (with Lloyds Banking
Group).

INVESTOR RELATIONS
•

Ranked #2 Most Honored Company in Asia
(ex-China) for bagging several top rankings in
the Technology / IT Services & Software sector
in Institutional Investor’s 2021 All-Asia (exJapan) Executive Team rankings based on a
survey of 4,084 investment professionals at
1,285 financial services firms across Asia. Top
rankings included Best IR Professional (#1),
Best IR Program (#2), and Best ESG (#2).
Awards and Accolades | 168

•

Recognized by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India with a Gold
Shield Award for Excellence in Integrated Reporting in Service Sector at
the ICAI Sustainability Reporting Awards 2020-21.

INDUSTRY ANALYST
•

•

Ranked the #1 Engineering Services PEAK Matrix Provider of the Year
2022 by Everest Group for the highest consolidated score across five
engineering services PEAK Matrix evaluations published in 2021, in each of
which TCS was ranked a Leader.
TCS was ranked a Leader in 92 competitive assessments published by
leading research firms in FY 2022 (86 in FY 2021):
Firm

Report type

Title
Q4

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Multi-Process Human Resources Outsourcing
(MPHRO) Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2022

HFS

Top 10

HFS Energy Transition Services Top 10 Snapshot,
2022

ISG

Lens

ISG Provider Lens™ Salesforce Ecosystem Partners

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: European Professional Services for
Data-Driven Transportation 2022 Vendor Assessment

NelsonHall

NEAT

P&C Operations Transformation 2022

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Intelligent Process Automation (IPA) – Solution
Provider Landscape with PEAK Matrix® Assessment
2022

IDC

MarketScape

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Life Science Sales and
Marketing IT Outsourcing Services 2022 Vendor
Assessment

Firm

Report type

Title

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Digital Product Engineering Services PEAK Matrix®
Assessment 2022: Breaking the Chasm between the
Physical and Digital Worlds

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Artificial Intelligence (AI) Services PEAK Matrix®
Assessment 2022

HFS

Top 10

HFS Top 10: Insurance Services, 2022

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Oracle Cloud Applications (OCA) Services PEAK
Matrix® Assessment 2022 – Global

NelsonHall

NEAT

Quality Engineering 2022

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Digital Interactive Experience (IX) Services PEAK
Matrix® Assessment 2022

Gartner

Magic
Quadrant

Magic Quadrant for Outsourced Digital Workplace
Services

Gartner

Magic
Quadrant

Magic Quadrant for Global Retail Core Banking

NelsonHall

NEAT

Digital Banking 2022

Gartner

Magic
Quadrant

Magic Quadrant for Data and Analytics Service
Providers

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Mortgage Operations PEAK Matrix® Assessment
2022

HFS

Top 10

HFS Top 10: Retail and CPG Services, 2022

ISG

Lens

ISG Provider Lens™ Life Sciences Digital Services

ISG

Lens

ISG Provider Lens™ Healthcare Digital Services

ISG

Lens

ISG Provider Lens™ AWS - Ecosystem Partners

HFS

Top 10

HFS OneOffice™ Services Top 10: Digital
transformation in action

HFS

Top 10

Utilities Services Top 10, 2022
Awards and Accolades | 169

Firm

Report type

Title
Q3

Firm

Report type

Title

Zinnov

Zones

Zinnov Zones 2021 - IoT - Internet of Things
Technology Services (Overall)

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Mainframe Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2022

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Enterprise Blockchain Services PEAK Matrix®
Assessment 2022

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Cloud Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2022 –
Europe

PEAK Matrix

Cloud Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2022 –
North America

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Everest
Group

Healthcare Analytics Services PEAK Matrix®
Assessment 2022

NelsonHall

NEAT

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Digital Workplace Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment
2022

Life, Annuities & Pension: Operational Transformation
2021

HFS

Top 10

HFS Pega Service Providers Top 10 2021

HFS

Top 10

HFS Top 10: Enterprise Blockchain Services, 2021

HFS

Top 10

HFS OneOffice™ Services Top 10: Data and Decisions

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Advanced Analytics and Insights (AA&I) Services PEAK
Matrix® Assessment 2022

IDC

MarketScape

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Supply Chain Management (SCM) BPS – Service
Provider Landscape with PEAK Matrix® Assessment
2022

IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Oil and Gas Upstream
Asset Management Digital Services 2021 Vendor
Assessment

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Enterprise Quality Assurance (QA) Services PEAK
Matrix® Assessment 2022

HFS

Top 10

HFS

Top 10

HFS OneOffice Services Top 10: Native Automation

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Banking Operations – Services PEAK Matrix®
Assessment 2022

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Managed Multicloud
Services 2021 Vendor Assessment

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

HFS OneOffice Services Top 10: People and Process
Change
Life and Pensions (L&P) Insurance BPS/TPA – Service
Provider Landscape with PEAK Matrix® Assessment
2022

NelsonHall

NEAT

Advanced Digital Workplace Services 2021 - NEAT

NelsonHall

NEAT

Digital Manufacturing Services 2021

HFS

Top 10

HFS Top 10: Life Sciences service providers, 2021

PEAK Matrix

HFS

Top 10

HFS Top 10: Internet of Things (IoT) Service Providers
2021

Everest
Group

Software-Defined Wide Area Network (SD-WAN)
Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2021

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Internet of Things (IoT) Supply Chain Solutions PEAK
Matrix® Assessment 2022

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Envisioning the Connected Future: 5G Engineering
Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2021

HFS

Top 10

HFS Energy Services Top 10, 2021

IDC

MarketScape

Zinnov

Zones

Zinnov Zones 2021 - Engineering R&D Services
(Overall)

IDC MarketScape: Worldwide B2B Commerce
Services for Industrial Manufacturing 2021 Vendor
Assessment

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Q2

Awards and Accolades | 170

Firm
ISG

Report type
Lens

Title

Firm

ISG Provider Lens™ Utilities Industry - Services and
Solutions -

NelsonHall

NEAT

Procurement Transformation 2021

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Network Transformation and Managed Services PEAK
Matrix® Assessment 2021

Forrester

Wave

The Forrester Wave™: Application Modernization And
Migration Services, Q3 2021

Forrester

Wave

The Forrester Wave™: Continuous Automation And
Testing Services, Q3 2021

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Capital Markets Operations – Services PEAK Matrix®
Assessment 2021

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Data and Analytics (D&A) Services PEAK Matrix®
Assessment 2021

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: European Smart Manufacturing
Service Providers 2021 Vendor Assessment

HFS

Top 10

Banking and Financial Services – The Best of the Best
Service Providers 2021

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Application and Digital Services in Banking PEAK
Matrix® Assessment 2021: Global and Europe Focus

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Application Transformation Services PEAK Matrix®
Assessment 2021

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Life Sciences Operations – Services PEAK Matrix®
Assessment 2021

NelsonHall

NEAT

Wealth & Asset Management Services 2021

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Finance and Accounting Outsourcing (FAO) – Service
Provider Landscape with PEAK Matrix® Assessment
2021

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Life Science R&D ITO
Services 2021 Vendor Assessment

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Life Science R&D
Strategic Consulting Services 2021 Vendor
Assessment

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Procurement Outsourcing (PO) – Service Provider
Landscape with Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment
2021

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

Exploring the Future of Mobility: Autonomous,
Connected, Electric, and Shared (ACES) Mobility
Automotive Engineering Services PEAK Matrix®
Assessment 2021

Report type

Title

Q1

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Life Science R&D BPO
Services 2021 Vendor Assessment

Avasant

RADAR

Avasant Higher Education Digital Services 2021–
2022 RADARVIEW™

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Artificial Intelligence IT
Services 2021 Vendor Assessment

HFS

Top 10

HFS Top 10 Supply Chain Service Providers

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: Asia/Pacific (Excluding Japan)
Managed Cloud Services 2021 Vendor Assessment

Gartner

Magic
Quadrant

Magic Quadrant for SAP S/4HANA Application
Services, Worldwide

Gartner

Magic
Quadrant

Magic Quadrant for Data Center Outsourcing and
Hybrid Infrastructure Managed Services, Global

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: Asia/Pacific Cloud Security Services
2021 Vendor Assessment Study

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Awards and Accolades | 171

Firm

Report type

Title

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Artificial Intelligence
Business Services 2021 Vendor Assessment

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

IT Managed Security Services PEAK Matrix®
Assessment 2021

NelsonHall

NEAT

CX Services in BFSI 2021

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Smart Manufacturing
Service Providers 2021 Vendor Assessment

Chartis

Market
Quadrants

GRC Solutions: RiskTech Quadrant® for conduct and
control solutions, 2021

Chartis

Market
Quadrants

GRC Solutions: RiskTech Quadrant® for GRC analytics,
2021

Chartis

Market
Quadrants

GRC Solutions: RiskTech Quadrant® for MRM
solutions, 2021

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Artificial Intelligence
Services 2021 Vendor Assessment

IDC

MarketScape

IDC MarketScape. Asia/Pacific Intelligent Automation
Services 2021 Vendor Assessment

Everest
Group

PEAK Matrix

S/4HANA Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2021

NelsonHall

NEAT

Cognitive & Self-Healing IT Infrastructure
Management Services 2021

HFS

Top 10

HFS TMT (Telecom, Media, and Technology) Service
Providers Top 10 2021

o

Two 2021 Microsoft Partner of the Year Awards – Azure Intelligent
Cloud in France and Dynamics 365 Field Service in the US, for
demonstrating excellence in innovation and providing outstanding
solutions and services based on Microsoft technology.

o

Named to the Microsoft Business Applications 2021/2022 Inner Circle,
for the high standard of excellence in building innovative solutions that
help customers achieve their growth and transformation objectives.

o

Application Transformation and Migration Partner of the Year at the
AWS Partner Awards in Australia and New Zealand.

o

Consulting Winner along with customer Stellantis (formerly Fiat Chrysler
Automobiles) for Marketing Cloud at Salesforce Partner Innovation
Awards 2021.

o

Solutions implemented by TCS for SAIL and Trent won the SAP ACE
Awards 2021 in the Manufacturing Transformation and Game Changer
categories respectively.

o

Won SAP EMEA North Award for Service Partner Excellence 2022 for
Integrated Delivery Experience.

o

Automation 360 Cloud Partner from Automation Anywhere in India,
Middle East & Africa.

o

Won Automation Anywhere Partner of the Year 2022 awards in the
categories Migration Partner - India, Knowledge Partner - India and
Americas and AARI Solutions Partner - EMEA at the company’s annual
Virtual Partner Summit.

o

LATAM 2021 Partner of the Year in the Product Sales Leadership
category from Automation Anywhere.

PARTNER
•

Won over 30 awards from technology alliance partners:
o

2020 Google Cloud Breakthrough Partner of the Year for
demonstrating innovative thinking, outstanding customer service, and
best-in-class use of Google Cloud products and solutions.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Awards and Accolades | 172

o

Recognized as the 2022 Americas Premier
Partner of the Year by MuleSoft.

o

Celonis BPO Partner of the Year at the
Celonis Ecosystem Summit 2021.

o

Top Performing - GSI Partner and Game
Changer - Enterprise Business category
in India and South Asia at the Red Hat
Partner Awards.

o

IFS Solutions Partner of the Year and IFS
Services Partner of the Year (Enterprise
Category) at the 2021 IFS Partner of the
Year Awards.

o

BMC Partner of the Year Award –
Cognitive Automation at the BMC Service
Provider eXchange (SPeX).

o

Global Partner of the Year 2020 for
Integration and API from Software AG.

o

Intel Partner of the Year 2021.

o

o

HPE GreenLake Ecosystem Partner of
the Year 2021.

2021 Partner of The Year Award by
Smart Message.

o

Strong Growth – Identity and Access
Management Partner of the Year 2021 by
CyberRes, a Micro Focus line of business.

o

Named the Ivalua APAC Partner of the
Year 2021.

o

Named International Partner of the Year
2021 by Ping Identity.

o

Recognized as GSI Partner of the Year
2021 by GoTo Partner Network.

o

Named Qlik’s North America System
Integrator of the Year.

o

System Integrator Partner Innovation
award from Qlik.

o

Creatio Partner of the Year FY2021
Award of Excellence.

o

Zscaler’s Global Solutions Integrator
Partner of the Year 2021.

o

MongoDB Global System Integrator
Partner of the Year Award for its bold,
innovative solutions that accelerate the
growth and transformation journeys for
businesses across industries.

o

Cohesity GSI Innovation Partner of the
Year FY21, for accelerating innovation and
increasing the ease of doing business.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Social Capital
•

Won the World Leadership Congress Award
for world-class operations at the All-Women
Business Process Services and IT Center in
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

•

Won the Best Indian Investment Award from
the Indo-French Chamber of Commerce &
Industry for TCS’ commitment to the French
economy through sustained long-term
investments in talent development, innovation,
and regional growth.

•

TCS’ Assisto, an innovative solution developed
by TCS Rapid Labs, was awarded Social Impact
Solution of the Year at the NASSCOM
Engineering R&D Awards, 2021 for the use of
the cognitive speech algorithms that generate
speech output in the tone, mother tongue and
near-real sound of the child using it.

•

Named in Points of Light’s Civic 50 List for the
Fifth Consecutive Year for TCS’ commitment
to drive social impact of its community
engagement programs.

•

TCS Bringing Life to Things ™ IoT Lab awarded
CMO Corporate Social Responsibility Award at
CMO Vision and Innovation Awards 2021.

Awards and Accolades | 173

Corporate Social
Responsibility

Overview
TCS’ vision is to empower people and communities
to build self-reliance through technology while
promoting the values of fairness, equity and respect
for human rights. Its mission is to connect people to
opportunities in the digital economy while building
equitable, inclusive pathways for all – especially
women, youth, and marginalized groups.
TCS has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact
(UNGC) since 2006 and is aligned with its ten
principles. The Company supports the principles
contained in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work, and the United
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights. These principles guide TCS’ community
initiatives.
The company continues to invest in addressing the
most pressing needs of the community, focusing
on education, skilling, employability, and digital
entrepreneurship with a focus on bridging the
opportunity gap for people and communities. It
invests in health and wellness, water sanitation and
hygiene, conservation, and disaster relief efforts to
support the basic needs of communities.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Through its unique engagement model, TCS
leverages its intellectual capability, technology
expertise, large employee base volunteering their
time and skills and of course financial capacity to
invest in programs that deliver longer term social
impact across the globe.
Its programs are holistic and comprehensive, and
designed to be flexible and adaptable, meeting
the specific needs of communities and regions
around the world. To build capacity of grassroots
organizations working in local communities, TCS
also invests in strategic partnerships, research,
and insights by providing pro-bono technology
consulting. This model of engagement allows TCS
to empower communities, create generational
improvements and build greater futures.
In FY 2022, TCS estimates that its global
community initiatives reached more than
1.7 million beneficiaries, made possible by over
58,900 employees contributing over 700,000
hours of their volunteering time to support local
community initiatives.

Corporate Social Responsibility | 174

Mapping of TCS’ CSR Programs with SDG Goals

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Social Responsibility | 175

Adult Literacy Program - Creating access to
literacy on a path to livelihoods
Despite years of investments, illiteracy continues
to be a core impediment stopping individuals from
realizing their potential. TCS’ Adult Literacy Program,
through its digital literacy solution has been
addressing this over the past 2 decades in India and
West Africa. Women have been a key target group,
with the program offering them a path to financial
independence and an opportunity to be role models
for their children, especially girls, in their families.
Till date, over 1.08 million learners, over 80% of
them women, have benefited from this program. The
program runs in over 162 districts across 20 states
and union territories across India, and also in Burkina
Faso, West Africa.
TCS has further expanded the scope of this program
in response to India’s new National Education Policy,
which emphasizes the need for digital literacy,
financial, legal, and electoral literacy, disaster
management and environmental literacy in addition
to functional literacy, to empower communities. New
modules on the platform include financial literacy
skills (8-10 hours), digital literacy skills (5-7 hours),
citizen entitlement awareness (3-4 hours) and
disaster risk reduction awareness (8-10 hours).
In FY 2022, over 7,400 learners gained basic literacy
skills.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

The impact of this program has been
transformational and transgenerational. It is
promoting social inclusion, financial stability and
economic growth, empowering neo-literates with
better access to the financial system, government
benefit programs and a greater say in family and
community decision-making.
Program outcomes include:
•

81% of the learners have encouraged their own
children especially girls to go to school.

•

75% learners expressed that their self-esteem
has increased because of this program.

•

67% learners feel that they have started
participating more in the decision-making
process in their family.

Ignite My Future (IMF) - empowering educators and
creating skills of the future
As technology change accelerates, the workforce
of tomorrow requires new age skills and capabilities
to be productive. Computational thinking is one
such futuristic skill that not only provides learners
with a problem-solving mindset, but also enables
access to high skilled jobs, enabling communities
to benefit from the adoption of new technologies.
However, there has been limited integration of this
skill within classrooms across the globe. Educators
that play a key role in creating access are themselves

‘Sampa’ stands out for her
perseverance and
dedication, and for showing
that self-will and
determination triumphs
against all odds. When she
first approached one of
TCS’ partner organizations working with
individuals with developmental disabilities, she
was in her mid-twenties, illiterate and
suffering from disorganized thoughts,
preoccupation, aggressive behavior and a
shattered sense of self.
Introduced to TCS’s digital literacy solution
ALP, she gradually started taking interest
in learning, drawn by the colourful and
attractive content. She was seen observing
the letters and numbers on her own, and
slowly started comprehending them. She
took everyone by surprise when the National
Institute of Open Schooling results were
announced, and she got an A grade.
It took 5 long years to bring her back to a life
of self-dignity. Sampa now works in a café
run by the partner organization, and is able
to handle the finances of the café business
and contribute meaningfully.
Corporate Social Responsibility | 176

not empowered to embed this within the learning
curriculum.
TCS’ IMF, implemented in North America, UK,
India, Latin America and APAC, has created global
access for educators and students to hone this
skill set. Equity and inclusion are integrated in
the program design, to specifically enable access
for underserved students from marginalized
communities.
Scenario-based lesson plans, teacher training and
resources, immersive and interactive engagements
for families as well as a year-round network of
support for educators through the Learning Leaders
Program ensures that the program addresses the
critical needs of every stakeholder in the learning
journey - creating long-term integration of a
highly valued skill set. To meet virtual and hybrid

learning demands, all aspects of the program were
restructured for online delivery, remaining inclusive
of communities with varying digital access and tools.
IMF launched its largest Global Innovations Teacher
Project to-date with 24 teachers from 5 countries
reaching over 500 students. Over 100 TCS
employee volunteers supported the 6-week project.
In FY 2022, the program empowered nearly
435,000 students and educators.
Program outcomes include:
•

81% educators were ready to use resources in
their classroom post-training.

•

90% educators reported they have returned to
in-person instruction.

•

$10K+ average savings to each district and
educator from free training.

goIT (go Innovate Together) – Digital Innovation
Program for Students
The jobs of tomorrow are changing rapidly.
Economies around the world are dealing with the
disparity between the needs of employers and the
skills that youth possess. According to the National
Science Foundation, it is predicted that 80% of the
jobs created in the next decade will require some
form of math and science skills. The lack of sufficient
numbers of students pursuing these streams, and
insufficient focus on innovation, problem-solving
and creativity in school curricula, are seen as big
challenges to the digital economy.

Anne LeBlanc is a middle school teacher at Halifax Regional in Nova Scotia, Canada. Anne uses Ignite My Future resources to make
computational thinking come to life for her students, in all core subjects. She and her students have participated in two IMF Global
Collaborations through which she has had the opportunity to collaborate with teachers from around the world.
Through this project, that relies on students’ using computational thinking to solve a global problem, Anne has found that her
classroom gets bigger and the world gets smaller for her students. This project has also been beneficial to one of her French speaking
students as he is able to translate his videos and other students’ videos allowing collaboration to happen even across language barriers.
“My students have found that through connecting with other students outside of their community they are more alike, than they are
different.” Anne supports and collaborates with like-minded educators though IMF global network of Learning Leaders.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Corporate Social Responsibility | 177

TCS’ flagship digital innovation and career readiness
program, goIT (go Innovate Together), prepares
students with the skills and mindsets to pursue
careers of the future. Through engaging design
workshops and custom mentorship experiences,
goIT benefits students by challenging stereotypes
and inspiring future leaders to pursue the careers of
tomorrow, most of which will involve STEM and the
computer sciences.

Four learners from Sinenjongo High School in Cape Town,
celebrated their win in the goIT Tech-savvy Challenge,
hosted by TCS in partnership with Steam education
specialist Sakhikamva Foundation.
The event saw more than 455 participants from nine high
schools across the Western and Eastern Cape battle it out
with their ideas for a winning app that could change their
local communities. Eventually, learners from Sinenjongo
High and Goodwood College took the top three positions.

goIT uses a four-pronged model of (1) volunteer
driven engagements, in-person or virtually, (2)
seamless year-round connects via goIT Online, (3)
SDG-focused monthly challenges and (4) Custom
mentorship experiences designed to introduce
student local experts and opportunities. Each prong,
layered with partnerships with school districts and
mentoring by industry professionals from TCS, makes
goIT a unique program that helps students develop
core skills that enable them to be productive in the
jobs of tomorrow.

The founder of Sakhikamva Foundation, Fatima Jakoet said the foundation was impressed by all the
participants of the competition but inspired by learners from Cape Town who worked hard to win the
tech challenge.
“What we have seen in this year’s South African goIT Challenge is young people expressing their ability to be
problem-solvers who can contribute to a better world,” said Jaconet.
Speaking about her team’s app idea, WO-MEN, Sinenjongo High School learner Lilitha Masizana said:
“We are so happy and excited to have won, and as a team we stand by what our app was designed to do – to
promote gender equality and the acceptance of gender diversity, which includes a conversation platform to
highlight the impacts of gender inequality.”

After over a decade of success and a footprint of
40 countries, goIT has now benefited over 100,000
students who have designed more than 26,000
tech-for-good digital innovation prototypes.
In FY 2022, more than 30,000 students and
educators benefited from this program.

•

96% students reported that they gained positive
insights from their TCS volunteer mentor.

•

80% showed an increased interest in STEM and
Computer Science.

Program outcomes include:
•

87% students felt they could be computer
scientists after their goIT experience.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

•

88% students demonstrated an understanding
of how technology can be used to improve their
community.

Corporate Social Responsibility | 178

Youth Employment Program - connecting India’s
rural youth to careers in digital economy
TCS’ Youth Employment Program (YEP) focuses
on one of the biggest challenges in India, which
is unemployment, underemployment, and lack
of access to high paying jobs among youth. It is
estimated that 7 million people are annually added
to the workforce, but the education and skills profile
of the existing workforce is very poor - especially
in rural and semi-urban locations. The pandemic
has created an even bigger need to integrate digital
and technology related skills within the learning
experience to ensure that youth can avail of the jobs
that are available in the market.
YEP connects India’s youth to careers in the digital
economy through the development of competencies
in numerical ability, logical reasoning, communication,
programming and domain skills. The program also
provides career guidance and interview skills to help
youth navigate through opportunities available in
the market. Over the last two years, the program has
gone virtual. The program has:
•

Enhanced employability of rural underprivileged
youth from socially, economically and
geographically disadvantaged communities.

•

Provided youth, especially those from
historically marginalized and low-income
families, with industry-specific experiential
learning that improves exposure to the kind of

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

skills and competencies required to make them a
highly viable industry resource.
•

Ensured continuous availability of highly skilled
and cross-functional talent pool for the industry.

•

Increased diversity and gender parity within the
workforce while creating inclusion and access
for marginalized groups across the country.

•

Promoted sustained and inclusive economic
growth, full and productive employment and
decent work.

In FY 2022, more than 19,700 students were
trained in India and LATAM, of whom more than
7,400 students gained employment in sectors such
as IT and ITeS, Retail, Banking and others. Today, the
program runs in 35 States & Union territories across
India.

Biki Minj is a young woman who
had never seen her father’s
face. She was brought up by her
widowed mother, a tea garden
labourer in Darjeeling and a
worker in the children’s hostel.
Biki began picking up English at the age of two,
when she and her mother moved into the
children’s hostel. At Biki’s own school, only the
local language was used during instruction.

Biki had dreams of attending college after she
graduated from high school, but the family could
not afford it. Instead, she took up a hospitality
management course and joined an airline as
ground staff in Kolkata. Unfortunately, the airline
went out of business, forcing Biki to look for
other work. She ended up in a small town in the
Uttar Dinajpur district of West Bengal teaching
English in a school for four years.
During that period, she continued her BA studies
in IGNOU through distance learning and became
a Graduate in English. On a trip to Siliguri, Biki
learned about TCS’ Youth Employment Program
that was about to be launched in the city. She
enrolled herself for the training and travelled
30 km every day from her grandmother’s
house to reach the training centre. Biki worked
tirelessly, learning as much as she could during
the program and earning recognition from her
instructors. Her efforts paid off when she was
offered a full-time position at TCS during a
recruitment drive in Siliguri.
Since she joined TCS, Biki has been able to
experience a freedom she never thought
possible. Earning a regular salary allowed her to
begin saving money to build a house for herself
and her mother, a house that will one day be
testimony to a life of independence and selfrespect.
Corporate Social Responsibility | 179

Program outcomes include:
•

4X enhancement in income for individuals from
marginalized communities in comparison to
elementary occupations.

•

80% indicated that better jobs led to a change
of role as earning member.

•

74% indicated an enhancement of status in the
family and community.

Entrepreneurship and Self-Employment
India has 30% youth unemployment (15-29
years) compared to a 15% global average, and 325
million Indians are from historically disadvantaged
and marginalized communities. Lack of proper
technology infrastructure, knowledge and resources
in villages have prevented communities from
accessing opportunities presented by the digital
economy.
Since 2014, the TCS’ BridgeIT program has
addressed social inequalities by empowering
marginalized youth to become rural entrepreneurs
and civic leaders in their villages. Partnering with
local NGOs, TCS engages the cohort through a
5-year period, offering them skills, mentoring,
technology, tools and resources. These digital
entrepreneurs become serve as the last-mileIntegrated Annual Report 2021-22

connect for people in the villages, delivering essential
digital services in the areas of education, adult
literacy, unemployment, social discrimination. This
facilitates a ‘bridging’ of access and opportunities
between youth in rural, underserved areas and those

in urban towns. Through this strategic approach, the
program has:
•

Upskilled young men and women from
marginalized communities to be successful
digital entrepreneurs.

Twenty-seven-year-old entrepreneur Bapi Raita is a member of the Saura
tribe which has some of the most severe problems with obtaining adequate
nutrition in India. Starvation deaths are common among the Saura. Despite
earning a diploma in Civil Engineering, Bapi was forced to do odd jobs to
make ends meet for his family.
Bapi married, moving to Bangalore with his wife and working in a garment
factory for nearly a year. When his wife fell ill, Bapi was had no choice but
to return to his village to help manage her care. Still needing to earn money
to support his family, Bapi learned about BridgeIT from a local NGO in
Odisha and registered for the training. Over the course of the program,
Bapi learned how to do business in the digital space with the training and
mentoring provided by the BridgeIT facilitators, an opportunity which would
have never been possible.
On completion of BridgeIT, and with equipment donated by TCS, Bapi was able to start his own online
business. As his business began growing, so did his earnings. Bapi is now earning nearly ` 1.30 lakhs from
just ` 4,000 before completing BridgeIT.
Bapi also wears BridgeIT Cluster Lead’s hat for the area where he operates in. With this comes the
responsibility to mentor seven other digital entrepreneurs from nearby villages. He gets a great sense of
fulfilment when he carries out his role as a Leader.
Bapi proudly says, “BridgeIT has changed my life and has brought hope of a good future for me and my family.
It has brought brightness to our lives and our community.”
Corporate Social Responsibility | 180

•

Empowered them with digital technologies
- facilitating a platform for essential online
services within rural areas.

•

Enabled them to educate students in
Government schools and support literacy for
adults through digital tools and resources.

Currently running in 30 districts across India, TCS’
vision is to expand this program to all of India’s
aspirational districts. In FY 2022, BridgeIT has
enabled 321 entrepreneurs across 20 districts in 9
States.
Program outcomes include:
•

1.5X earnings compared to other selfemployed individuals in rural areas.

•

95% indicated increased income and improved
standard of living.

•

92% women indicated higher self-esteem at
home.

Digital Impact Square (DISQ), a TCS Foundation
Initiative, is an open social innovation platform
designed to enhance the lives of citizens. The
platform encourages innovation using digital
technologies, to address the needs of citizens by
inviting individuals or teams who want to bring in
a change and create an impact in society through
digital innovations.
DISQ has nurtured over 55 changemakers from
around 590 innovators since 2016.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

The program has received high appreciation
from stakeholders in the government and social
organization such as Social Alpha, Tata Trusts and
Unltd India. There has been immense interest from
various parts of the country in replicating the DISQ
model. DISQ collaborated partners to identify
potential opportunities for students.
Ekatvam Innovations Program outcomes the
‘Most Promising Solution’ globally by a panel
of water experts from Ramboll, Grundfos and
the International Water Association in a global
competition. They were awarded scholarships to
participate in the International Water Congress
2022 in Copenhagen.

The program focuses on convening experts from
technology, business, non-profit, public policy, and
academia to ideate, collaborate, and create digitally
driven solutions to social impact challenges. Since
the inception of the program in 2018, Digital
Empowers has engaged with over 6,000 experts
across India, South Africa, the UK, and Mexico to
expand collective knowledge and collaborate to
come up with new solutions to the most pressing
community issues, with the potential to scale and be
applicable throughout the world.

Overall, the program has supported 12 solutions in
reaching self-sufficiency.
Thought Leadership, Research and Insights
Digital Empowers
Digital Empowers, TCS’ global thought leadership
program in CSR, explores the intersection of
technology and social impact, spotlighting the
crucial role technology plays in finding solutions for
intractable social issues. The purpose of the program
is to raise awareness of digital technologies and
social issues, explore the art of what’s possible, and
foster cross sector partnerships.

Corporate Social Responsibility | 181

TCS runs the Pitch for Purpose, a competition
for start-up social entrepreneurs, to showcase
mission-driven founders across the world whose
fledging businesses are solving issues by deploying
emerging technology and cutting-edge innovation.
The competition grew in 2021, with over 200
entrepreneurs applying, and eight finalists pitching to
a live panel of expert judges. Elliot Roth, Founder of
Spira Inc., won the first-place prize with his innovative
solution that creates carbon negative materials from
genetically engineered algae.
In August 2021, Digital Empowers, in partnership
with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation,
published a culminating report, Technology as a
Catalyst for Empowering Communities. With nine
different topics examined, the report captured the
unique insights, best practices, and key learnings
from dozens of experts across sectors and industries
that are actively driving social change using digital
tools and technologies.

https://www.tcs.com/corporate-social-responsibility/
digital-empowers/catalyst-report’
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Health and Wellness
Healthy communities can drive better economic
development and a feeling of wellbeing. TCS
recognizes the importance of health and wellness,
and promotes it among its employees as well as in
local communities across the world. Its CSR initiatives
seek to create new, systemic solutions that address
society’s biggest health challenges.
TCS has provided an integrated Hospital
Management System and IT infrastructure, which
includes a comprehensive and fully integrated,
web-based solution, to The Cancer Institute (CI),
Chennai and Tata Medical Center (TMC), Kolkata.
As a result of laboratory equipment integration, a
larger number of patients have benefited, with the
solution providing 100% coverage of patients via
virtual engagements, including those that did not
show up or were not reachable. Patient care services
implemented this year improved patient satisfaction
and reduced anxiety.
A 15-bed COVID-19 care facility was setup and
made operational at the Cancer Institute during the
second COVID wave to facilitate care for COVIDaffected patients. Patient Care Coordinators (PCCs)
at TMC Kolkata continued to support patients by
managing virtual-consultation processes, pediatric
OPD appointments, patient crowd management and
new patient management. Patients Investigation
Reports were made available on the TMC website for

online viewing directly by patients, without the need
for physically visiting the hospital to collect reports.
Water Sanitation and Hygiene
Jal Jeevan Mission, a project by the Ministry of Jal
Shakti, Government of India, has been supported by
the Tata Group, with TCS providing key expertise in
applying a ‘Bridgital model’ for monitoring rural water
service delivery as well as enhanced stakeholder
engagement via digitally enabled workflows.
To address several issues in rural water supply, TCS
created an IoT-based smart water management
solution for remote monitoring and control. This
innovative solution is end-to-end, from source to
tap, feature rich, uses advanced analytics and has
high fidelity with over 99.9% uptime and accuracy.
It can work in poor cellular network coverage areas
(particularly in remote and rural villages) and is
powered by solar power, best suited for off-grid
environments.
This solution has so far helped provide regular,
adequate, and clean drinking water to nearly 75,000
beneficiaries across 14 villages spread across 8 states
and union territories in India.
It has helped identify distribution issues – such as
outages, leakages or low pressure, and led to timely
resolutions. It recently alerted both officials and the
Corporate Social Responsibility | 182

local community of fast depleting groundwater levels,
that led the villagers to build a source strengthening
structure to recharge their borewell.

•

With TCS’ IoT-based smart water management
solutions, communities are able to:
•

Ensure equitable and adequate water quantity,
quality and periodicity.

•

Reduce water borne diseases through water
quality monitoring.

•

Improve lives of rural households, especially
women and girls.

•

Pro-Bono Technology Support to Social
Organisations
As part of TCS’ pro-bono technology support
interventions or Tech4Good Programme, TCS
continues to help community-based organizations
and non-profits seeking to create social and
environmental impact across the globe. TCS has
been leveraging its abundant technology and
Intellectual capital to create exponential impact
across the globe by delivering pro-bono digital
services to social organizations. The company’s
engagement strategy utilizes its contextual
knowledge and the knowledge from a diverse
network of experts to develop innovative solutions
to unique problems within the community.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

The Resume Builder, an application created by
TCS’ Social Innovation Lab in close collaboration
with TCS Research and Innovation group, helps
participants of the Youth Employment Program
generate standardized resumes, setting them
up for success in the job market. The application
has been piloted with over 3,000 YEP
participants and slated to be expand further in
the future.

“Thanks to the great support of TCS experts,
San Martino was able to design and implement
a Career Guidance section on their website
specifically designed for international students,”
explained Mario Porcelli, Managing Director for
San Martino Servizi.
•

In North America, TCS continues to build
pro-bono digital solutions for organizations
like The Council for Responsible Sport,
International Medical Corps and so on. The
Council for Responsible Sport helps sporting
organizers assess the Environmental, Social,
and Governance impact of events and has been
helping organizers of i.e., the Bank of America
Chicago Marathon to track their resource usage
and impact for years.

•

TCS’ 2,000-hour pro bono commitment to the
‘Re-Score project’ helped envision the Council’s
drive to create a digital solution, leveraging
cloud-based technology that would serve as a
first-of-its-kind in the field. Re-Score makes
credible guidance and performance tracking
accessible to all organizations that host sporting
events.

•

For International Medical Corps, a global,
non-profit, humanitarian aid organization
spread across 30 countries in Africa, Asia and

In Australia, TCS provided pro bono technology
empowerment to Meals on Wheels NSW,
Food Ladder, Charitable Recycling Australia,
The Indigenous Marathon Foundation and
Briometrix so they could continue to support
people who depended on their services even
during in the pandemic.
“Since TCS helped us develop the calculator,
we have been able to reach greater audiences
both through our website and networks and also
through our members,” said Omer Soker, CEO,
Charitable Recycling Australia.

•

backgroundsacross Italy kickstart their careers.

In Italy during the peak of the pandemic, TCS
supported San Martino, a social enterprise
focused in helping non-nationals living
in Italy start their careers to create a fair
ground for employment. TCS designed,
developed and implemented a digital solution
so they can continue to help people from all

Corporate Social Responsibility | 183

Middle East with a focus on providing health
services support, clean water and hygiene
education, women’s and children’s health and
emergency response and preparedness, TCS
helped reimagine their vendor prequalification
system and digitized the processes for improved
efficiency and operational resilience.
Employee Engagement
TCS’ skill-based CSR initiatives offer volunteering
opportunities to employees, helping them give back
to the communities, imbuing them with a higher
sense of purpose. Our people-centric investments
go beyond the boundaries of our organization, into
communities across the world, where we support
initiatives to bridge the digital divide, and address
some of the most pressing issues in countries where
we live and work.
TCS’ Employee Volunteer Program (EVP) offers
opportunities to employees for contributing their
time and effort towards societal well-being, while
sensitizing them to the issues that are plaguing the
world. Volunteering fosters a sense of fraternity,
bringing employees together and engaging them in
ways beyond work.
During the devastating second wave of COVID-19
in India, EVP team has worked with various internal
TCS teams such as Safety First, Cares to create the
content for several community support initiatives.
The content was then used to create awareness
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Praveen Kumar a TD
faculty from MBU, started
volunteering for goIT
program with training
workshops for around 400
students from a nearby
school in Kanchipuram.
During sessions on
problem-solving and
design thinking, he interacted with students
and was amused by how they related to the
concepts in their own unique ways. He says
seeing students view the process of learning
as a game transported him back to his school
days. He also believes that being around
students can help one forget about their
sorrows, anxieties, and stresses, hence
boosting one's energy and spreading positivity.
His journey continues to shape many more
subsequent generation’s students, preparing
them for 21st-century skills. He has also been
an active faculty member for weekly YEP
workshops, conducted several business
communication sessions for YEP colleges in
Tamil Nadu. He urges other volunteers to
deliver the courses with enthusiasm, provide
examples and share real-world references to
enable students to relate to concepts and
apply their learnings in everyday activities.

Chai Eng Law an HR
Specialist has been an active
YEP volunteer for over six
years. Once her session was
scheduled over a weekend,
yet the students seemed
incredibly happy to be at the
college. As she watched their faces filled with
enthusiasm, she knew volunteering for this
program would be worth her time and effort,
which later turned out to be 100% true. She
says, “I strongly believe that in learning, you will
teach, and in teaching, you will learn. YEP, gives
me the opportunity to practice this belief of
mine.” Her weekends would pass by in a blink
of an eye, and the benefits from this program
far outweighed the inconveniences she faced.
She felt overwhelmed when she saw her
students gradually overcome their hesitation
to converse in English and eventually became
more confident in spoken English. She recalls,
one day as she was about to enter the lift in
her office building, she spotted a young
associate stepping out of the lift. Her joy knew
no bounds when she recognized this person as
a YEP trainee who had appeared at a mock
interview conducted by her.

Corporate Social Responsibility | 184

last 3 years, was launched in India, UK&I and
LATAM. The program harnesses the leadership,
communication, and project management skills
needed to create a sustained commitment
to social impact within our industry and
communities.

on the importance of vaccination to curb vaccine
hesitancy, facilitating mental health awareness
sessions for beneficiaries of the CSR initiatives and
the community at large. EVP team has owned and
managed this entire process by liaising with internal
CSR teams and external TCS functions.
More than 58,900 TCS associates volunteered
nearly 700,000 hours towards various programs in
FY 2022 aligned to Sustainable Development Goals
3, 4, 5, 8, 10, and 13.
Program outcomes include:
•

Through Pro Engage, TCSers from 13 countries
and 8 regions supported 204 pro bono projects,
contributing 14,000+ hours to NGOs in India,
NA, and LATAM.​

•

IMF kicked off a Global Teacher Collaboration
with 29 teachers from 5 countries, engaging
100+ volunteers from NA and LATAM over 6
weeks.​

•

Celebrated the 7 annual Sadhana Month,
through which over 16,000+ volunteers from
India, NA, and LATAM donated 215,000 hours
of service in their local communities.

•

Leaders with Purpose, a civic leadership program
designed to nurture and prepare TCS leaders
with the skill to lead societal change, which was
successfully running in North America for the

Empowering Communities in the Fight Against
COVID 19
Initiatives to help communities deal with the
pandemic, launched in the prior year along with TATA
Group companies continued in FY 2022. With the
support of TCSers across the globe, the company
continued to help those that needed it the most. Key
highlights:
•

TCS donated 1,170 oxygen concentrators and
252 ventilators across 15 states in India and
mobilized thousands of employees, customers
and partners to support our COVID response

•

Dependents of those who lost their lives to
the pandemic were enrolled in TCS’ Youth
Employment Program, where they were trained
and groomed to improve their employability.
New livelihood avenues were made available for
1,600 COVID-affected families.

•

TCS’ BridgeIT entrepreneurs supported their
local communities, helping out with vaccine
registration, accessing online COVID reports
and online government initiatives.

th

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

•

TCS volunteers helped cascade awareness
materials around infection prevention and
vaccination in remote communities, sourced
from authentic sources such as the Government
of India, MoHFW and WHO.

•

The TCS Cares program organized sessions to
provide mental health support.

•

Basic provisions such as rice, cooking oil, sugar,
canned food were provided to underprivileged,
poor and disabled families.

•

With all schooling going virtual, TCS donated
laptops and mobile broadband connections
to students from low-income families, and
volunteers held conducted sessions on internet
literacy.

Corporate Social Responsibility | 185

Business
Responsibility
& Sustainability
Report

SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.

1

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

9.

Details of the listed entity1
1.

Corporate Identity Number
(CIN) of the Listed Entity:
L22210MH1995PLC084781

2.

Name of the Listed Entity:
Tata Consultancy Services Limited

3.

Year of incorporation: 1995

4.

Registered office address: 9th Floor, Nirmal
Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400 021,
India

5.

Corporate address: TCS House, Raveline
Street, Fort, Mumbai 400 001, India.

6.

E-mail: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com

7.

Telephone: +91 22 6778 9595

8.

Website: www.tcs.com

Financial year for which reporting is
being done: Financial year 2021-22 (April
1, 2021 to March 31, 2022)

10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where
shares are listed: NSE (National Stock
Exchange of India Limited) and BSE
(formerly Bombay Stock Exchange)
11. Paid-up Capital: ` 366 crores
12. Name and contact details (telephone,
email address) of the person who may be
contacted in case of any queries on the
BRSR report:
		

Name: Milind Lakkad

		

Designation: Chief Human Resources
Officer

		

Telephone number: +91 22 6778 9999

		

E-mail id: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com

GRI 2-1, GRI 2-3
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 186

13. Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made
on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on a consolidated
basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its
consolidated financial statements, taken together).2
Data

2
3

Exclusions

TCS’ consolidated global
operations

None

Human
Resources

TCS’ global operations, including
wholly owned subsidiaries.

< 0.2% of the consolidated
headcount.

Disclosures pertaining to
employee benefits, performance
appraisals and statutory topics
are specific to the workforce
based in India.

Workforce outside India

TCS’ Global operations (using
operational control approach).

Other TCS’ operations
accounting for < 4%
headcount

Environmental

		

Basis

Financial

The data measurement techniques used, and the basis of calculations
and estimates have been mentioned in the relevant areas of this report.
TCS does not believe there is any substantial divergence from the GRI
Indicator Protocols. The scope, boundaries, and methodology for data
analysis in this document remain the same as in the prior year and are
mentioned above. There has been no restatement3 of information or
changes in the material topics or boundaries since the prior year. The
data is sourced from Ultimatix, TCS’ core enterprise platform. Other
supporting data is reviewed by relevant third-party assurers as part of

GRI 2-2
GRI 2-4

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

ISO and financial audit.
		GRI Assurance4: Ernst & Young has assured the data presented under
GRI Standards disclosures as specified in their Assurance Statement.
The scope and basis of assurance have been described in their assurance
letter. The Board was not involved in seeking this assurance.
II.

Products/services5
14. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):

		

TCS provides IT services, consulting and business solutions to many of
the world’s largest businesses in their transformational journeys. Further
details are provided in the Management Discussion and Analysis section
of this Integrated Annual Report.

15. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the
entity’s Turnover):
		

Application Development and Maintenance, Consulting and Service
Integration, Digital Transformation Services, Cognitive Business
Operations and Products and Platforms.

		

Some of the services broadly map to NIC classes 6201, 6202, 6209 and
6311.

4
5

GRI 2-5
GRI 2-6
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 187

III. Operations6

IV. Employees

16. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the
entity are situated:
Location

Number of
plants

Number of offices (Delivery
offices)

Total

Total (A)

Male
No. (B)

Female

% (B / A)

No. (C)

% (C / A)

122

1.

Permanent (D)

590,662

379,942

64.3

210,720

35.7

International

NA

Delivery centers – 71, Offices - 107

178

2.

Other than Permanent (E)

17,609

9,924

56.4

7,685

43.6

3.

Total employees (D + E)

608,271

389,866

64.1

218,405

35.9

Note:

Number of locations

•	TCS’ global headcount excludes employees of non-wholly owned subsidiaries.

National (No. of States)

28 States and 8 Union Territories

•	All of TCS’ workforce is categorized as ‘Employees’ and none as ‘Workers’.
Hence in all the sections, details sought of the ‘Workers’ category are Not
Applicable to TCS.

International (No. of Countries)

54

•

b.

Number

What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total
turnover of the entity?

			

The contribution of exports as a percentage of total turnover of TCS
Standalone is 94.0%.

		

A brief on types of customers

6

S.
Particulars
No.

Delivery centers – 113, Offices - 9

a.

c.

			

Employees (including differently abled)7:

NA

Locations

		

a.

National

17. Markets served by the entity:
		

18. Details as at the end of Financial Year: FY 2021-22
		

TCS works with leading corporations across the world - typically
Fortune 1000 or Global 2000 corporations and the public sector.
In India, TCS works with departments of the Government of India,
various state governments, systemically important entities and the
private sector.

GRI 2-6

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Other than Permanent category includes contractors and interns.
b.

Differently abled Employees:

S. Particulars
No
1.
2.
3.

Total (A)

Male
No. (B) % (B / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
Permanent (D)
921
706
76.7
Other than Permanent (E)
11
8
72.7
932
714
76.6
Total differently abled
employees (D + E)

Female
No. (C) % (C / A)
215
3
218

23.3
27.3
23.4

Note:
• Differently abled type includes Hearing, Visual, Locomotor, Orthopedic and
Others
7

GRI 2-7
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 188

19. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women8
Total (A)

V.

21. (a) Names of holding / subsidiary10

No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)

% (B / A)

Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)

S.
No.

Name of the holding / subsidiary/ (A)

Indicate
whether
holding/
Subsidiary

% of
shares
held by
listed
entity

Key Management Personnel (KMP) are Chief Executive Officer and Managing
Director (CEO&MD), Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director (COO),
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Company Secretary (CS).

Does the entity
indicated at
column A,
participate in
the Business
Responsibility
initiatives of the
listed entity?
(Yes/No)

1.

Tata Sons Private Limited

Holding

72.3

Yes

Senior Management excludes Directors and KMP.

2.

APTOnline Limited

Subsidiary

89

Yes

3.

C-Edge Technologies Limited

Subsidiary

51

Yes

4.

MP Online Limited

Subsidiary

89

Yes

Board of Directors

9

Key Management Personnel
Senior Management

2

22.2

4

0

0.0

29,966

3,980

13.3

Note:
•

•

20. Turnover rate for permanent employees9
FY 2021-22
Male
Permanent
Employees

17.3%

Female

FY 2019-20

5.

TCS e-Serve International Limited

Subsidiary

100

No

Male

Female

Total

6.

MahaOnline Limited

Subsidiary

74

Yes

7.5% 12.8%

14.2%

13.3%

7.

TCS Foundation

Subsidiary

100

Yes

8.

Diligenta Limited

Subsidiary

100

Yes

9.

Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

10.

Tata America International Corporation

Subsidiary

100

Yes

11.

Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific
Pte Ltd.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

FY 2020-21

Total

Male

Female

17.8% 17.5%

7.5%

7.5%

Total

Note:
•	Turnover rates mentioned above are for TCS’ global headcount (including IT
and business services), excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.

8
9

GRI 405-1
GRI 401-1

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

10

GRI 2-2
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 189

S.
No.

Name of the holding / subsidiary/ (A)

Indicate
whether
holding/
Subsidiary

% of
shares
held by
listed
entity

Does the entity
indicated at
column A,
participate in
the Business
Responsibility
initiatives of the
listed entity?
(Yes/No)

S.
No.

Name of the holding / subsidiary/ (A)

Indicate
whether
holding/
Subsidiary

% of
shares
held by
listed
entity

12.

Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co.,
Ltd.

Subsidiary

93.2

Yes

23.

Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg
S.A.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

13.

Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.

Subsidiary

66

No

24.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

14.

Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn
Bhd

Subsidiary

100

Yes

Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland
Ltd.

25.

Subsidiary

100

No

15.

PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia

Subsidiary

100

No

Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich
GmbH

16.

Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines)
Inc.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

26

Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS

Subsidiary

100

Yes

27.

100

Yes

Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand)
Limited

Subsidiary

100

No

Tata Consultancy Services De Espana
S.A.

Subsidiary

17.

28.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

18.

Tata Consultancy Services Belgium

Subsidiary

100

Yes

Tata Consultancy Services (Portugal)
Unipessoal, Limitada

19.

Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland
GmbH

Subsidiary

100

Yes

29.

Tata Consultancy Services France

Subsidiary

100

Yes

30.

Tata Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia

Subsidiary

100

Yes

20.

Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB

Subsidiary

100

Yes

31.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

21.

Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands
BV

Subsidiary

100

Yes

Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (PTY)
Ltd.

32.

No

Tata Consultancy Services Italia s.r.l.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) Subsidiary
(PTY) Ltd.

100

22.

33.

TCS FNS Pty Limited

100

Yes

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Subsidiary

Does the entity
indicated at
column A,
participate in
the Business
Responsibility
initiatives of the
listed entity?
(Yes/No)

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 190

S.
No.

Name of the holding / subsidiary/ (A)

Indicate
whether
holding/
Subsidiary

% of
shares
held by
listed
entity

34.

TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd.

Subsidiary

35.

TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty
Limited

Subsidiary

36.

TCS Iberoamerica SA

Subsidiary

100

Yes

37.

TCS Solution Center S.A.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

38.

Tata Consultancy Services Argentina
S.A.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

39.

Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil
Ltda

Subsidiary

100

Yes

Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico
S.A., De C.V.

Subsidiary

41.

Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

42.

TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada

Subsidiary

100

Yes

VI. CSR Details

43.

TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

22. (i)

44.

TCS Uruguay S.A.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

45.

MGDC S.C.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

46.

Tata Consultancy Services Qatar L.L.C.

Subsidiary

100

No

40.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Does the entity
indicated at
column A,
participate in
the Business
Responsibility
initiatives of the
listed entity?
(Yes/No)

S.
No.

Name of the holding / subsidiary/ (A)

Indicate
whether
holding/
Subsidiary

% of
shares
held by
listed
entity

100

Yes

47.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

100

Yes

Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited
(formerly W12 Studios Limited)

48.

TCS Business Services GmbH

Subsidiary

100

Yes

49.

Tata Consultancy Services Ireland
Limited

Subsidiary

100

Yes

50.

TCS Technology Solutions AG (formerly
Postbank Systems AG)

Subsidiary

100

No

51.

Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V.

Subsidiary

100

Yes

52.

Tata Consultancy Services Bulgaria
EOOD

Subsidiary

100

Yes

53.

Tata Consultancy Services Guatemala,
S.A.

Subsidiary

100

No

100

Yes

(ii)

Does the entity
indicated at
column A,
participate in
the Business
Responsibility
initiatives of the
listed entity?
(Yes/No)

Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act,
2013: (Yes/No) Yes
Turnover (in `) ` 191,754 crore

(iii) Net worth (in `) ` 89,139 crore
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 191

VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
23. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder group
Grievance Redressal Mechanism in
from whom complaint Place (Yes/No)
is received
(If Yes, then provide web-link for
grievance redress policy)11
Communities

Yes
https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy

Investors (other than
shareholders)
Shareholders

FY 2021-22

Number of
complaints filed
during the year

FY 2020-21

Number of complaints
pending resolution at
close of the year

Remarks

Number of complaints
filed during the year

Number of complaints
pending resolution at
close of the year

Remarks

0

0

-

0

0

-

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Yes
As per SEBI Listing Regulations.

87

-

-

86

-

-

Employees

Yes

190

14

287

33

Customers

Yes.
Escalation mechanisms are defined
in individual client contracts and
addressed as per TCS Quality Policy.

65

9

59

4

-

Value Chain Partners

https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP

0

0

0

0

-

11

-

GRI 2-25

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 192

24. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues12
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity
to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
S. No.

Material issue identified

Indicate
whether
risk or
opportunity
(R/O)

Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity

In case of risk, approach to adapt
or mitigate13

Financial implications of
the risk or opportunity
(Indicate positive or
negative implications)

1

Talent management:
The company’s ability to attract,
develop, motivate, and retain talent is
critical to business success.

Risk

Risk of failure in any of the elements of talent management
can impact the Company’s ability to fulfill demand and grow
its revenues.

Kindly refer the Enterprise
Risk Management section in
Management Discussion and
Analysis

Negative

2

Social responsibility: Health and
Wellness of TCS employees and
associates

Risk

Has a direct impact on the health of TCS employees
besides productivity impact.

Kindly refer to the Employee
Health and Wellbeing section
of Management Discussion and
Analysis

Negative

3

Environmental Footprint:
Climate change

Risk

Extreme weather events due to climate change pose a
physical risk of disruption to the company’s operations,
and the safety and wellbeing of its employees. Additionally,
economic disruptions due to transition risks can impact the
company’s growth and profitability.

Kindly refer to the Enterprise
Risk Management section in
Management Discussion and
Analysis.

Negative

Opportunity

As TCS’ customers respond to climate change actions, the
company is seeing opportunities to provide technology-led
solutions to help them achieve their sustainability goals.

Kindly refer the Enterprise
Risk Management section in
Management Discussion and
Analysis

Positive

12
13

GRI 3-2
GRI 3-3

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 193

S. No.

Material issue identified

Indicate
whether
risk or
opportunity
(R/O)

Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity

In case of risk, approach to adapt
or mitigate

Financial implications of
the risk or opportunity
(Indicate positive or
negative implications)

4

Environmental Footprint -Water
management

Risk

Water scarcity can impair the company’s operations and
disrupt business.

Employee education around
saving water, more efficient use
of water in campuses, Rain water
harvesting, recycling of waste
water.

Negative

5

Environmental Footprint -Waste
management

Risk

Inadvertent non-compliance to existing and emerging
regulations around recycling and the circular economy can
result in economic penalties and reputation damage.

Reduction in waste generation,
maximization of recycling and
reuse.

Negative

6

Social Responsibility – Alignment with
Local Communities

Risk

The business must be rooted in community and be aligned
with the community’s larger interests. Any
adversarial relationship can hurt the company’s ability to
create longer term value.

Fostering local communities,
job creation, skill development,
supporting local relief efforts
where required in times of crisis
and paying taxes

Negative

Opportunity

Structural interventions around generating greater interest
in STEM education and STEM careers in the younger
generation, can address talent scarcity issues in the future
and help build TCS’ brand reputation for alignment with
local communities.

Risk

Strong corporate governance is core to achieving the
organization’s mission and any risks can undermine
stakeholder trust, damage reputation and disrupt business.

7

Corporate Governance – Board
oversight, Conflict of Interest, Ethics,
Risk and Compliance, Succession
Planning

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Positive

Kindly refer to “Material aspects
and TCS’ approach to them” in
Corporate Governance Report

Negative

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 194

SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES

Disclosure Questions

This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and
processes put in place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.

Policy and management processes

P
1

P
2

P
3

P
4

P
5

P
6

P
7

P
8

P
9

a.	Whether your entity’s
policy/policies cover each
principle and its core
elements of the NGRBCs.
(Yes/No)14

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

The National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic
Responsibilities of Business (NVGs) released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
has adopted nine areas of Business Responsibility. These briefly are as follows:
P1 Business should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and
Accountability

b.	Has the policy been approved
by the Board? (Yes/No)14

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

c.	Web Link of the Policies, if
available14

P1 to P9: Tata Code of Conduct15 (TCoC)
P1: Whistleblower Policy16
P2 – Sustainable Supply chain Policy17 –
P3 and P5 – Employees related Policies18
P4 and P8: CSR Policy19
P6 – HSE Policy and ESG Policy20

1.

P2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to
sustainability throughout their life cycle
P3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees
P4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all
stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized

2.	Whether the entity has translated
the policy into procedures. (Yes /
No)21

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights

3.	Do the enlisted policies extend to
your value chain partners? (Yes/
No)22

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

P6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment
P7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do
so in a responsible manner

14
15
16

P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development

17

P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and
consumers in a responsible manner

19

18

20
21
22

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

GRI 2-23
https://on.tcs.com/Tata-Code-Of-Conduct
https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP
https://www.tcs.com/sustainability-strategy
HR policies available to employees on Ultimatix, TCS Intranet
https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy
https://on.tcs.com/Environmental-Policy
GRI 2-24
GRI 2-23
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 195

Disclosure Questions

P
1

P
2

P
3

P
4

P
5

P
6

P
7

P
8

P
9

4.	Name of the national and
international codes/certifications/
labels/ standards (e.g. Forest
Stewardship Council, Fairtrade,
Rainforest Alliance, Trustea)
standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS,
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity
and mapped to each principle.

Y23

Y24

Y25

NA

Y26

Y27

NA

NA

NA

5.	Specific commitments, goals and
targets set by the entity with
defined timelines, if any.28

N

6.	Performance of the entity against
the specific commitments, goals
and targets along-with reasons in
case the same are not met.30

NA

N

NA

N

NA

N

NA

N

NA

Y29

Y30

N

NA

N

NA

N

NA

TATA Code of Conduct
	iQMSTM, TCS’ Integrated Quality Management System, comprehensively integrates the
requirements and best practices of the latest industry models, frameworks and standards
such as ISO 9001:2015, ISO 20000:2018, ISO 27001:2013, ISO 22301:2019, ISO
27701:2019, ISO 20017:2015, ISO 27018:2019, CMMI® DEV v 2.0 and CMMI® SVC
v2.0; Health Safety and Environment Standards ISO 14001, ISO 45001; as well as
industry domain specific standards such as AS9100 (Aerospace), TL9000 (Telecom) and
ISO 13485 (Medical Devices).
25
ISO 45001:2018
26
	TCS is aligned with international laws, principles, and norms, including those contained in
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles
and Rights at Work, United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
and are a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2006.
27
ISO 14001:2015, ISO 50001:2018
28
GRI 3-3
29
	70% Reduction in absolute Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions (vs base year 2016), Net zero
by 2030
30
25% Reduction in absolute carbon emissions Y-o-Y; Renewable energy use at 37.2%
23

24

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Disclosure Questions
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report,
highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and achievements (listed entity has
flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)31
	TCS has set forth its new carbon reduction goal to reduce its absolute greenhouse
gas emissions across Scope 1 and Scope 2 by 70% by 2025 (over 2016 base year),
and to achieve net zero emissions by 2030. The new goal is after having achieved
the previous target of reducing its specific carbon footprint by half by 2020 (versus
baseline year FY 2008), ahead of schedule.
	N G Subramaniam, COO & Executive Director, TCS32: “Our net zero goal underlines
our renewed commitment to environmental stewardship. To curb emissions and
limit global warming to well below 2, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, compared to
pre-industrial levels, all organizations will have to reimagine existing business models
and aim for sustainable growth. We are in a unique position to combine our purposedriven world view with digital innovation to not only drive our own sustainability, but
also partner with customers, civil society and governments to lead and shape solutions
for a sustainable future,”
	At the core of TCS’ strategy to reduce its carbon footprint is improved energy
efficiency through the addition of more green buildings to the company’s real estate
portfolio, reduction of IT system power usage, and the use of TCS Clever Energy™,
which leverages IoT, machine learning and AI to optimize energy consumption across
campuses. TCS’ Vision 25x25 is a strategic lever that delinks TCS’ business growth
from campus expansion, and brings down emissions related to employee commutes
and business travel. Other elements of the company’s net zero aspiration include
greater use of renewable sources of energy and carbon removal offsets.
	Enivronmental targets and achievements are part of Natural Capital section, which is
on Page 31 of Integrated Annual Report.

31
32

GRI 2-22
https://www.tcs.com/tcs-targets-net-zero-emissions-by-2030
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 196

Disclosure Questions
8.	Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight
of the Business Responsibility policy (ies).33

Name: Milind Lakkad
Designation: Chief Human Resources Officer
Telephone number: 022 67789999
E-mail id: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com

9.	Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director responsible
for decision making on sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide
details.34

The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (SRC) of the Board of Directors is responsible for decision
making on sustainability related issues.
DIN
03611983
00008886
06365813

Name
Dr. Pradeep Kumar Khosla
Keki Mistry
Rajesh Gopinathan

Designation
Chairman
Member
Member

10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review

Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director /
Committee of the Board/ Any other Committee

Frequency:Annually (A) / Half yearly (H) / Quarterly
(Q) / Any other – please specify

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

Performance against above policies and follow up action

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Q

H

Q

Q

Q

H

H

Q

Q

Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to the
principles, and, rectification of any non-compliances

Statutory Compliance Certificate on applicable laws is
provided by the CEO to the Board of Directors.

11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation
of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No).
If yes, provide name of the agency.35

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

N

Y

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

N

Quarterly

Annual where applicable

12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated: Not Applicable

GRI 2-13
GRI 2-9
35
GRI 2-5
33

34

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 197

SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in
integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key processes and decisions.
The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the
essential indicators are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated
to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by
entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially,
environmentally and ethically responsible.

•

Awareness programs covering the applicable principles were held and
attended by all respective committee members of the Board and/or the Board
of Directors.

2.

Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/
settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by directors /
KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions,
in the financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make
disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as
disclosed on the entity’s website)37:

PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity,
and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.

Monetary

Essential Indicators
1.

NGRBC
Principle

Name of the
regulatory/
enforcement
agencies/ judicial
institutions

Amount
(In INR)

Brief of
the Case

Has an
appeal
been
preferred?
(Yes/No)

Penalty/ Fine

NIL

NIL

NIL

NA

NA

Settlement

NIL

NIL

NIL

NA

NA

Compounding fee

NIL

NIL

NIL

NA

NA

NGRBC
Principle

Name of the
regulatory/
enforcement
agencies/ judicial
institutions

Brief
of the
Case

Has an appeal been
preferred? (Yes/No)

Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the
Principles during the financial year36:

Segment

Total number
of training
and awareness
programmes
held

Topics /
principles
covered under
the training
and its impact

%age of persons
in respective
category covered
by the awareness
programmes

Board of Directors

10

All

100.0%

Key Managerial Personnel

10

All

100.0%

17,969

All

98.5%

Employees other than BoD and
KMPs

Non-Monetary

Note:
•
36

All the principles laid down in BRSR are covered by TCS mandatory trainings
and Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC), which is adhered to by all employees.

Imprisonment

NIL

NIL

NA

NA

Punishment

NIL

NIL

NA

NA

GRI 2-17

37

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

GRI 2-27
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 198

3.

Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/
Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-monetary action has
been appealed.
Case Details
NA

Name of the regulatory / enforcement agencies /
judicial institutions
NA

4.	Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes,
provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-link to the policy.38
Yes. The TCoC contains guidelines on anti-bribery and anti-corruption. TCS
is committed to upholding the highest moral and ethical standards, and does
not tolerate bribery or corruption in any form. The policy is available on the
company website at: https://on.tcs.com/Tata-Code-Of-Conduct
5.

Number of Directors/KMPs/employees against whom disciplinary action
was taken by any law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/
corruption39:
FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

Directors

NIL

NIL

KMPs

NIL

NIL

3 (Under fraud)

2 (under Fraud)

Employees

6.

Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

Number

Remarks

Number

Remarks

Number of complaints received
in relation to issues of Conflict
of Interest of the Directors

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

Number of complaints received
in relation to issues of Conflict
of Interest of the KMPs

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

7.

Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues
related to fines / penalties / action taken by regulators/ law enforcement
agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of
interest.
Not Applicable

Note:
•

38
39

Data specific to India. Cases pertain to employees in continued employment,
where investigation by law enforcement agencies is underway, pending
conclusion.

GRI 2-23
GRI 205-3

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 199

PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and
processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
Amount
in ` crore

2.

FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

R&D

2,242

1,917

Capex

2,964

3,139

a.

		

b.
		
3.

Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
TCS’ investments in research and innovation have resulted in solutions like Envirozone™, Clever Energy and IP2™. TCS has been using Clever
Energy for the last few years to reduce its energy consumption, and is now commercially selling it and the other two solutions to clients to
help them achieve their sustainability goals. Additionally, TCS has been investing in building green campuses (IGBC certified). All of this, along
with greater use of renewable energy has helped TCS bring down its carbon footprint by 66% versus base year 2016.40

Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing41? (Yes/No)
Yes. TCS’ Sustainable Supply Chain policy and Green Procurement policy outline its commitment to making its supply chain more responsible and sustainable. The
policies are available on our website:
TCS Policy

Web link

Sustainable Supply Chain policy

https://on.tcs.com/SSCP

Green Procurement policy

https://on.tcs.com/GPP

If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
100% of TCS’ suppliers are covered in the responsible sourcing program.

Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b)
E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste42.
TCS is an IT Consulting Services and Business Solutions company and does not manufacture any products hence this question is not applicable to the company’s
operations. TCS has defined processes in place for reuse, recycle and safe end-of-life disposal for the products used in its operations. TCS conducts audit on waste
recycling vendors for the safe disposal of e-waste, used lube oil, battery waste and other hazardous waste.

TCS Energy Management Solution – TCS AR FY 2016-17
GRI 308-1
42
GRI 306-2
40
41

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 200

4.

Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
No. EPR is not applicable to TCS.

PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
Essential Indicators
1.

a.

Details of measures for the well-being of employees43:

Category

% of employees covered by
Total (A)

Health Insurance
Number (B)

Accident Insurance

% (B/A)

Number (C)

Maternity benefits

% (C/A)

Number (D)

Paternity benefits

% (D/A)

Number (E)

Day care facilities

% (E/A)

Number (F)

% (F/A)

Permanent Employees
Male

325,241

325,241

100

325,241

Female

182,945

Total

508,186

182,945

100

182,945

508,186

100

508,186

100

NA

NA

100

182,945

100

100

182,945

36

57

0.02

NA

NA

0

0

NA

NA

57

0.01

NA

NA

Other than Permanent Employees
Male
Female

Vendors and Contractors are required to adhere with the statutory compliance as per the state rules.

Total

Note:
•

Data specific to India.

•

Paternity Leave benefit is applicable only to employees of the erstwhile eServe.

•

There are no day-care facilities on TCS premises. TCS has location wise tie-ups with third-party run day care centers, which employees can avail of.

43

GRI 401-2

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 201

2.

Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year44.
Benefits

FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

No. of employees covered as a % of
total employees

Deducted and deposited with the
authority (Y/N/N.A.)

No. of employees covered as a % of
total employees

Deducted and deposited with the
authority (Y/N/N.A.)

PF

100

Y

100

Y

Gratuity

100

Y

100

Y

ESI

6

Y

8

Y

SA

6

Y

7

Y

NPS

1

Y

1

Y

Note:
•
3.

Data specific to India.

Accessibility of workplaces: Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the Rights
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
Yes

4.

Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-link to the policy. –
Yes. The Tata Code of Conduct can be accessed at: https://www.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct. Additionally, there is a Disability Inclusion Policy governing TCS’ India
operations, available to employees on the company’s local intranet.

44

GRI 201-3

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 202

5.

Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees that took
parental leave45.

7.

Gender

Category

Permanent employees
Return to work rate

Retention rate

Male

89%

88%

Female

89%

93%

Total

89%

93%

Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions
recognised by the listed entity47:

6.

Data specific to India.

Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances46 for the
following categories of employees and worker? If yes, give details of the
mechanism in brief.
Yes/No
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)

Permanent Employees

Other than Permanent
Employees

45
46

Yes, the employees can use the “Employee Concerns”
application to log their grievances in TCS internal portal, which
will be addressed by the respective stakeholders within the
stipulated timelines

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

% (D/
C)

Total
Permanent
Employees

508,186

55

0.01

415,649

61

0.01

-Male

325,241

55

0.02

263,178

61

0.02

-Female

182,945

0

0.0

152,471

0

0.0

Note:
Data specific to India.
8.

Details of training given to employees and workers48:
Training and engagement are an important element for safety awareness.
Health and safety training is imparted to employees as a part of the
induction module at the time of joining to achieve minimum mandatory
health and safety (H&S) competence combined with an annual refresher web
based training. Further, TCS engages employees on H&S through various

Non-Permanent employees can raise the grievances via Email
to the concerned stakeholders.

GRI 401-3
GRI 2-25

FY 2020-21

Total
No. of
% (B / A)
Total
No. of
employees employees
employees Employees
in
in respective
in
in respective
respective
category,
respective
category,
category
who are
category
who are
(A)
part of
(C)
part of
association(s)
association(s)
or Union (B)
or Union (D)

Note:
•

FY 2021-22

47
48

GRI 2-30
GRI 404-1
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 203

communication channels like webinars trainings, posters, events, emails, floor meetings, skits, videos, and blog/posts on TCS intranet. Several campaigns like the Road
Safety Awareness, Ergonomics Awareness, Fire Safety awareness, Incident reporting engage employees to make them more aware and safety conscious.
The number of employees who have completed the refresher training is given below:
Category

FY 2021-22
Total (A)

On Health and Safety Measures
No. (B)

% (B/A)

FY 2020-21
On Skill Upgradation
No. (C)

Total (D)

On Health and Safety Measures

% (C/A)

No. (E)

% (E/D)

On Skill Upgradation
No. (F)

% (F/D)

Employees
Male

379,942

374,645

98.6

367,461

96.7

304,327

297,601

97.8

288,473

Female

210,720

205,656

97.6

201,314

95.5

171,367

164,608

96.1

160,297

94.8
93.5

Total

590,662

580,301

98.2

568,775

96.3

475,694

462,209

97.2

448,770

94.3

Note:

9.

•

The above data includes all Mandatory Policies related training including Health and Safety.

•

The above data is based on Globally reported training and excludes employees on Leave Without Pay.

•

Based on TCS’ global headcount of permanent employees. Excludes employees of non-wholly owned subsidiaries.

Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker49:
Category

FY 2021-22
Total (A)

No. (B)

FY 2020-21
% (B/A)

Total (C)

No. (D)

% (D/C)

Employees
Male

251,176

248,972

99.1

274,310

271,546

Female

131,896

130,857

99.2

153,413

151,473

99.0
98.7

Total

383,072

379,829

99.2

427,723

423,019

98.9

Note:
•
49

Data specific to India.

GRI 404-3

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 204

10. Health and safety management system:
a.

Whether an occupational health and safety management system has
been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage such
system50?

		

Yes. TCS is certified to ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety
(OHS) Management System standard across 124 of its facilities worldwide
in FY 2022. These certified locations constitute 82% of office footprint
and >96% of people footprint operating from these locations.

		

TCS has a well-defined Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) policy
and supporting processes to ensure the safety and well-being of its
employees. Safety lead and lag indicators are measured across the
organization and reported. The board-level Stakeholders’ Relationship
Committee reviews the company’s health and safety performance on
a half yearly basis. Over 96% of the workforce is represented in joint
management-employee health and safety committees that monitor,
advise and drive occupational, health and safety initiatives.

b.
		

50
51

Mitigation plan and controls are provided to eliminate the identified
hazards and risks.
c.
		

d.

GRI 403-1
GRI 403-2

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Yes. TCS has a safety incident reporting and management process to
ensure that all work-related incidents (which include accidents, nearmisses, unsafe conditions and unsafe acts) are reported and closed after
taking necessary corrective actions. This is enabled through an online
safety incident reporting tool which is accessible to all TCS employees
to facilitate transparent reporting. The platform also supports incident
investigation and corrective action with the perspective of eliminating
hazards and preventing incidents.
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to nonoccupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)53

		

Yes. TCS recognizes that overall physical and mental wellbeing of its
employees is integral to its success and growth aspirations. TCS has a
people focus approach by involving consulting and training employees on
physical health, mental health, and wellbeing.

		

TCS has taken a holistic approach to well-being and redefined them
to be relevant in these trying times of pandemic. These well-being
programs were reimagined to look at various aspects such as COVID-19
support, mental health, ergonomic health, physical health, and safety at
home, delivered through digital channels, hospital insurance services,
occupational health services and through seamless integration of all
stakeholders. TCS Cares initiative has instituted programs for associates

What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and
assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the entity51?
As a part of ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety
Management System, TCS has a documented procedure to carry out
assessment of work-related hazards and risks for all routine and nonroutine activities carried out at any location. Hazard and risk identification
is carried out by the process owners in consultation with the safety
experts. The process owners are responsible to ensure adequate controls
are identified and implemented to control the identified OHS risks.

Whether you have processes for employees to report the work
related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. (Y/N)52

52
53

GRI 403-2
GRI 403-6
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 205

and their families to help cope with the mental stress and anxiety. TCS
has been promoting health and wellbeing of employees through Yoga,
Fit4Life and similar initiatives.
		

		

11. Details of safety related incidents54, in the following format:
Typical to any service sector company operating out of office-based premises,
most common injuries occur due to slips, trips and falls or being struck by
stationary objects, road accidents in company provided transport. TCS ensures
capturing all types of incidents including accidents, near-misses and safety
observations and ensuring 100% closure of the reported incidents with
appropriate corrective and preventive actions.

TCS has occupational health centers (OHC) at TCS facilities in India.
The employees and contractors who are working at these facilities have
access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services as well.
Beyond the OHCs, TCS provides comprehensive medical and healthcare
services to employees through the company provided medical insurance
to employees and their dependents. In overseas geographies, nonoccupational medical and healthcare services are provided as per the
country regulations. To ensure physical fitness, TCS also has recreational
facilities and gymnasiums at many of its facilities for the benefit of the
employees.
TCS, through its TCS Cares initiative, instituted programs for employees
and their families to help cope with the mental stress and anxiety. Online
counselling sessions and self-help resources saw an increase in usage.
Interactive sessions for grief support as well as extending individual grief
counselling to employees through proactive HR connects and reach
outs were conducted to extend support to employees battling with
losses. Also, a special series of burnout support offerings were deployed
to increase awareness and create support strategies for burnout. HR
connects were strengthened through Emotional Wellbeing SOPs. Special
sessions were organized for stress management for leadership teams for
managing the new normal Peer counselling for HRs was done to equip
them to handle mental health cases coming from employees. A special
series of “Respond with Care“ offerings, highlighting hope and positive
psychology, providing basic emotional first aid skills is also being provided
to HRs, Managers and employees.

The safety incident statistics is given below –
Safety Incident/Number

Total recordable work-related injuries

FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

0.0032

0.0044

4

5

No. of fatalities

0

0

High consequence work-related injury
or ill-health (excluding fatalities)

0

0

Employees

12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy
work place55.
TCS recognizes that occupational, health & safety (OHS) and overall physical
and mental wellbeing of its employees is integral to its success and growth
aspirations as spelled out in its OHS Policy. TCS is committed to provide safe
workplaces focusing on preventing injuries, illnesses, and continuously strives
to eliminate hazards and reduce OHS risks.

54
55

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Category

Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
(LTIFR) (per one million-person hours
worked)

GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10
GRI 403-2, GRI 3-3, GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 206

Key occupational health related risks are associated with the key generic
H&S risks identified typical to TCS’ nature of operations include workplace
ergonomics risks arising due to computer usage, indoor air quality, workplace
illumination and noise and fire risk typical to an office building and general
office risks including slips, trips, falls, electrical shock, etc. Hazard identification
and risk assessment process is conducted to has helped identify each such
risk and ensure that proper mitigation measures are put in place to create a
healthy and safe work environment.

13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees56:
FY 2021-22

Working
Conditions

Some of the mitigation measures to prevent or mitigate significant
occupational health & safety impacts include,
•

Provision and maintenance of fire detection, alarm and suppression
systems

•

Regular site review, inspections and audits to assess safety preparedness

•

Regular mock drills for fire as well as medical emergencies

•

Provision of ergonomically designed chairs and workstations to prevent
musculoskeletal disorders (MSD’s) and low radiation computer monitors
for better visual health

•

Digital monitoring of indoor air quality and periodic cleaning of the HVAC
ducts to avoid sick building syndrome

•

Regular training on occupational health & safety training to sensitize
employees on OHS aspects to inculcate a culture of safety

•

Employee engagement campaigns on health & safety topics such as fire
safety, road safety, emergency evacuation, ergonomics among others

There are no major H&S risks associated with TCS services as the company
provides customized software solutions and IT services.

Health &
Safety

Pending
resolution
at the end
of year

40

0

Remarks

Filed
during
the
year

Pending
resolution
at the end
of year

44

0

Remarks

14. Assessments for the year57:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or
statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety TCS has 124 locations globally certified with ISO 45001:2018,
practices
Occupational Health & Safety Standards. 100% of offices have
been audited during FY 2022 by qualified internal auditors at TCS.
Every year, one third of TCS’ locations are identified to be sampled
for external/ third party audits. In FY 2022 about 30% of TCS’
offices have undergone ISO 45001:2018 audits by External
Auditors / third parties. Hence, out of 124 locations globally,
TCS has 38 of them undergo external audits by TUV Nord for
occupational health & safety.
There were no statutory audits conducted on health and safety
practices in FY 2022 for any of the offices in India.

56
57

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Filed
during
the
year

FY 2020-21

GRI 2-25
GRI 3-3
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 207

% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or
statutory authorities or third parties)
Working
Conditions

TCS locations are subject to site safety inspections and reviews
periodically by internal health & safety team with the perspective
of checking any health, hygiene and safety hazards and mitigating
them.
As a part of ISO 45001:2018 audits, TCS locations undergo a
site review and assessment to check deployment of operational
controls. 100% of TCS’ sites get checked and inspected for health
and safety aspects during each year.

PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to
all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.

Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the
entity59.
TCS engages with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, to deepen its insights
into their needs and expectations, and to develop sustainable strategies for the
short, medium and long term. Stakeholder engagement also helps to manage
risks and opportunities in business operations. The key stakeholders identified
in consultation with the company’s management are: customers, employees,
shareholders, academic institutions, head-hunters, staffing firms, other
suppliers, partners and collaborators, industry bodies such as NASSCOM and CII,
governments, NGOs, local communities, regulators and society at large.

15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address
safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks / concerns arising
from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.58
There were a few road/transport, slip, trip and fall related incidents during
the year which have been investigated and closed with necessary corrective
and preventive actions. Defensive driving focus and behavioral based safety
practices have been emphasized as corrective measures.

Some other stakeholders that TCS closely engages with – such as industry
analysts, equity analysts, and the news media –are proxies for other named
stakeholders – i.e. customers, shareholders, and society at large, respectively.
Stakeholder interactions might be structured (e.g. surveys, account
statements) or unstructured (town halls, 1x1 meetings). Based on mutual
convenience and need, the engagement maybe scheduled as needed, or
pre-scheduled on a periodic basis (fortnightly/ monthly/ quarterly/ annual) or
continuous (e.g. website, social media).

58

GRI 403-10

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

59

GRI 2-29
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 208

2.

List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group60

Stakeholder Group

Customers

Shareholders

60

Whether identified as
Vulnerable & Marginalized
Group (Yes/No)

Channels of Communication

No

As needed: Project-related calls and
meetings; project management reviews;
relationship meetings and reviews;
executive meetings and briefings;
customer visits; responses to RFIs/
RFPs; sponsored events; mailers;
newsletters; brochures

No

(Email, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets,
Advertisement, Community Meetings,
Notice Board, Website), Other

As needed: Press releases and press
conferences; email advisories; facility
visits; in-person meetings; investor
conferences; non-deal roadshows;
conference calls

Frequency of Engagement (Annually/
Half yearly/ Quarterly / others –
please specify)

Purpose and scope of engagement
including key topics and concerns
raised during such engagement

•

Continuous: TCS website;
social media (LinkedIn, Twitter,
Facebook, Instagram, YouTube)

•

Understanding client, industry and
business challenges

•

Half-yearly: Customer
satisfaction surveys

•

Identifying opportunities to
improve TCS’ service and products
for cross-selling

•

Annual: Customer summits;
Innovation days; Executive
customer surveys; Sponsored
Community events

•

Deciding on investments and
capabilities required to fulfil
demand

•

Understanding client’s data privacy
and security requirements

•

Quarterly: Financial statements
in IndAS and IFRS; earnings call;
exchange notifications; press
conferences

•

Educating the investor community
about TCS integrated value
creation model and business
strategy for the long term

•

Half Yearly: CEO message on
half-yearly financial performance
and summary of significant events

•

Helping investors voice their
concerns regarding company
policies, reporting, strategy, etc.

•

Continuous: Investors page on
the TCS website

•

Understanding shareholder
expectations

•

Annual: Annual General Meeting;
Annual Report

GRI 2-29

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 209

Stakeholder Group

Employees

Partners and Collaborators

Academic Institutions

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Whether identified as
Vulnerable & Marginalized
Group (Yes/No)

Channels of Communication

No

As needed: Town halls; roadshows;
project or operations reviews; video
conferences; audio conference calls;
one-on-one counselling

No

No

(Email, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets,
Advertisement, Community Meetings,
Notice Board, Website), Other

As needed: Meetings/calls; COINTM
meetings; visits; partner events

As needed: Academic Interface
Program; Co-Innovation Network
(COIN™) meetings

Frequency of Engagement (Annually/
Half yearly/ Quarterly / others –
please specify)

Purpose and scope of engagement
including key topics and concerns
raised during such engagement

•

Monthly: @TCS (in-house
magazine)

•

Career Management and Growth
Prospects

•

Continuous: TCS website;
Ultimatix Notice Board; CEO
Connect; CTO Blog; Corporate
Corner; Knome; dipstick surveys;
grievance redressal system

•

Learning opportunities

•

Compensation structure

•

Building a safety culture and
inculcating safe work practices
among employees

•

Ongoing desire for more flexible
working hours

•

Annual: PULSE (employee
feedback survey); long-service
awards; sales meets; Blitz
(business planning meet)

•

Improving Diversity and Inclusion

•

Monthly: Conference calls

•

Stronger partnerships

•

Quarterly: Business reviews

•

Demand Sustainability

•

Annual: Partner events

•

Credit worthiness

•

Ethical Behavior

•

Fair Business Practices

•

Governance

•	
Continuous: TCS website;
academic portal

•	Knowledge-exchange
collaboration

•	Annual: Sangam (high-level
academic conference); campus
recruitment

•	Advancing the academic’s
research program / curriculum
enhancement
•

Job creation

•

Internship opportunities

•

Faculty development

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 210

Stakeholder Group

Whether identified as
Vulnerable & Marginalized
Group (Yes/No)

Channels of Communication

Head-hunters; staffing firms;
other suppliers

No

Industry bodies, Regulators

No

Governments; NGOs; local
communities; media, industry
analysts, society at large

No

Frequency of Engagement (Annually/
Half yearly/ Quarterly / others –
please specify)

Purpose and scope of engagement
including key topics and concerns
raised during such engagement

One-time: RFIs/RFPs; empanelment
process

As needed: Transactional meetings;
periodic reviews; surveys

•	Diversity hiring initiatives and what
are the biggest challenges

As needed (need basis / usually 1-2
meetings in 3 months’ basis):

Annual: Conferences; summits

•	Ensure 100% compliance to all
local laws

Continuous: TCS website

•	Understand areas for sustainable
development

(Email, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets,
Advertisement, Community Meetings,
Notice Board, Website), Other

•

Conferences and seminars,

•

working committee meetings,

•

surveys,

•

other meetings

As needed: Governance RFIs/RFPs;
presentations; project meetings;
reviews; calls and meetings; surveys;
consultative sessions; field visits;
due diligence; calls and meetings;
conferences and seminars; surveys;
press releases; press conferences;
media interviews and quotes; sponsored
events, Analyst Days

•	Communicate TCS’ performance
and strategy;
•	Manage TCS’ brand and
reputation;
•	Share and contribute to thought
leadership and insight into public
and business concerns;
•	Discuss TCS’ response to
responsible business issues
•	Work in partnership to develop
solutions to global challenges

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 211

PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.

Employees who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following format61:
Category

FY 2021-22
Total (A)

FY 2020-21

No. of employees covered (B)

% (B / A)

Total (C)

No. of employees covered (D)

% (D / C)

Employees
Permanent

590,662

580,335

98.3

475,694

462,172

97.2

Other than permanent

17,609

15,333

87.1

12,393

10,826

87.4

Total Employees

608,271

595,668

97.9

488,087

472,998

96.6

Note:
•

61

Training details for TCS Global headcount.

GRI 2-24

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 212

2.

Details of minimum wages paid to employees in the following format62:
Category

FY 2021-22
Total(A)

Equal to MinimumWage
No. (B)

% (B / A)

FY 2020-21
More than MinimumWage
No. (C)

Total(D)

% (C / A)

Equal to MinimumWage
No. (E)

% (E / D)

More than MinimumWage
No. (F)

% (F / D)

Employees
Permanent
Male

325,241

726

0.2

324,515

99.8

263,178

373

0.1

262,805

99.9

Female

182,945

557

0.3

182,388

99.7

152,471

282

0.2

152,189

99.8

Male

9.924

NA

NA

NA

NA

7,231

NA

NA

NA

NA

Female

7,685

NA

NA

NA

NA

5,162

NA

NA

NA

NA

Other than Permanent

Note:

62

•

Data specific to India

•

Other than Permanent category consists of contractors and interns. The professional fees / stipends paid to them are not comparable to the salaries paid to
employees.

GRI 405-2

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 213

3.

Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format63:
Male
Number

Female

Median remuneration/ salary/wages of
respective category (₹ Lakh per annum)

Board of Directors (BoD)

Number

Median remuneration/salary/ wages of
respective category (₹ Lakh per annum)

Distribution provided below

(a)

Executive Directors

2

2,322.8

-

NA

(b)

Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors

1

Nil

1

Nil

(c)

Non-Executive Independent Directors

Key Managerial Personnel

4

237.5

1

225.0

4

-

-

NA

3.6

112,476

Employees other than BoD and KMP

Distribution provided below

(a)

Junior

161,708

3.7

(b)

Middle

144,162

12.8

67,274

10.2

(c)

Senior

19,234

34.3

3,195

32.4

Notes:

63
64

•

At TCS, remuneration is the same for men and women working full-time, in the same grade, in the same role, and at the same location64. Gaps in median salary
between genders at middle and senior levels is due to a higher proportion of women at the junior ends of each cohort. TCS’ focused diversity and inclusion
programs are expected to narrow this gap over time.

•

Data is specific to India.

•

The median remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is Nil (refer serial no. III(iv)(a) of the Corporate Governance Report)

•

Key Managerial Personnel includes CEO, COO, CFO, CS, erstwhile CFO and CS, who relinquished their offices with effect from April 30, 2021 and October 31,
2021 respectively. The median remuneration of the Executive Directors are covered as a part of BoD. Since the remuneration of CFO and CS is only for part of the
year, their median remuneration has not been stated

•

Remuneration details of BoD and KMPs are as published in Integrated Annual Report FY 2022.

GRI 2-19, GRI 2-21
GRI 405-2

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 214

4.

Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the business65? (Yes/
No) - Yes

5.

Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues66.
Reporting avenues have been provided for TCS’ employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to raise concerns or make disclosures when they become aware
of any actual or potential violation of the Company Code, policies or law including human rights violation. Representations made in the reporting avenues are reviewed
and appropriate action is taken on substantiated violations.

6.

Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers67:
FY 2021-22
Filed during the
year

Pending resolution at
the end of year

FY 2020-21
Remarks

Filed during the year

Pending resolution at
the end of year

Remarks

Sexual Harassment

36

16

Review in progress

27

8

Closed

Discrimination at workplace

1

0

Closed

1

0

Closed

Child Labour

0

0

0

0

0

0

Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour

0

0

0

0

0

0

Wages

0

0

0

0

0

0

Other human rights relatedissues

0

0

0

0

0

0

Notes:
•

Data specific to India

•

The above data is as on March 31, 2022

GRI 2-13
GRI 2-25
67
GRI 406-1
65
66

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 215

7.

8.

Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in
discrimination and harassment cases68.

PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and
restore the environment

Concerns on discrimination and harassment are dealt with confidentially. TCS
does not tolerate any form of retaliation against anyone reporting good faith
concerns. Anyone involved in targeting such a person raising such complaints
will be subject to disciplinary action.

Essential Indicators
1.

TCS uses multiple energy sources in its daily operations, electricity being the
primary source. Majority of the electricity comes from conventional sources,
but TCS has increased the share of renewable electricity (RE) over the
years through onsite rooftop solar generation, third party procurement and
purchase of Energy Attribute Certificate (EAC) (in select geographies). Other
sources of energy include natural gas (mainly used for space heating/cooling),
district heating and cooling, fuel used in company owned vehicles, cooking gas
used in cafeteria and diesel used in diesel generators (mainly used as a backup source for power shortages). The RE consumption as a % of total electricity
consumption has increased from 15.6% in FY 2021 to 37.2% in FY 2022 The
electricity used across India operations reduced by 6.5% Y-o-Y. For global
operations, there is an increase in total electricity use by 2.7% Y-o-Y due to
the increased reporting boundary in FY 2022 covering operations in North
America (NA), Asia Pacific (APAC), Europe and Middle East.

Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and
contracts? (Yes/No)69
Yes.

9.

Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by
entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment

Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy
intensity, in the following format70:

TCS internally monitors compliance for all relevant
laws and policies pertaining to these issues. There
have been no observations by local statutory / third
parties in India in FY 2022.

Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify

10. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address
significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments at Question 9
above.
Not Applicable
68
69

GRI 2-25
GRI 2-23, GRI 2-24

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

70

GRI 302-1, GRI 302-3
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 216

Details of total energy consumption (in Mega Joules) and energy intensity are
provided in the table below:
Parameter

FY 2021-22

2.

FY 2020-21

From renewable sources
401,662,127

163,892,956

Total fuel consumption (B)

0

0

Energy consumption
through other sources (C)

8,482,654

0

Total energy consumed
from renewable sources
(A+B+C)

410,144,781

163,892,956

Total electricity consumption
(A)

Not Applicable
3.

672,917,518

880,609,895

Total fuel consumption (E)

41,303,253

38,154,387

Energy consumption
through other sources (F)

0

0

Total energy consumed
from non-renewable
sources (D+E+F)

714,220,770

918,764,282

0.00058

0.00066

Energy intensity per rupee
of turnover (Total energy
consumption/turnover in
rupees)

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has
been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external
agency.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young
Associates LLP (EY).

Parameter

FY 2021-22
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i) Surface water
NIL
(ii) Groundwater
121,756
(iii) Third party water
1,243,889
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
NIL
(v) Others – Rainwater utilized
75,314
Total volume of water withdrawal
1,440,959
(in kiloliters) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
Total volume of water
1,319,696
consumption (in kiloliters)
Water intensity per rupee of
0.0000007
turnover (Water consumed /
turnover)

71

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Provide details of the following disclosures related to water71, in the
following format:
The sources of freshwater at TCS includes third party water (86.4%),
groundwater (8.4%) and rainwater harvested (5.2%). TCS optimizes water
consumption through conservation, sewage treatment and reuse, and
rainwater harvesting. All new campuses have been designed for higher
water efficiencies, 100% treatment and recycling of sewage, and rainwater
harvesting. The detailed break up is given below:

From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption
(D)

Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated
consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme
of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set
under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been
achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.

FY 2020-21
NIL
116,126
1,209,121
NIL
76,034
1,401,280
1,268,191
0.0000008

GRI 303-3, GRI 303-5
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 217

4.

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has
been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external
agency.Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst
& Young Associates LLP (EY).

Parameter

Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If
yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation72.
Yes, TCS has achieved zero liquid discharge across all the campuses. TCS
optimizes water consumption through conservation, sewage treatment and
reuse, and rainwater harvesting. All new campuses have been designed for
100% treatment and recycling of sewage, and rainwater harvesting.

5.

72

Please
specify
unit

FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

NOx

NA

NA

NA

SOx

NA

NA

NA

Particulate matter (PM)

NA

NA

NA

GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

FY 2020-21

Persistent organic pollutants (POP)

NA

NA

NA

Volatile organic compounds (VOC)

NA

NA

NA

Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)

NA

NA

NA

Others–please specify

NA

NA

NA

The DG stack emissions are sampled and analyzed by government approved
laboratories and the reports are reviewed by the internal team to ensure
compliance to the CTO conditions. These stack emission reports are
submitted to government authorities (State Pollution Control Boards) as per
consent conditions. These reports are also verified during internal and external
audits to check compliance.

TCS being a service sector company does not have significant air emissions
other than those arising from operation of DG sets during power outages.

Parameter

FY 2021-22

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has
been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external
agency.

Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the
entity, in the following format:

TCS’s operations in India have necessary consent under the Air (Prevention
& Control of Pollution) Act (1981), for operation of DG set and ensures
compliance to the conditions which includes stack emission parameters like
nitrous oxide, non-methane hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, particulate
matter, etc. Stack emission monitoring is conducted as per the frequency
required under the Consent To Operate (CTO) the DG.

Please
specify
unit

6.

Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2
emissions) & its intensity, in the following format73:
The Scope 1 emissions are from direct GHG sources like fuel used in company
owned vehicles, diesel generators and cafeteria, fugitive emissions from
refrigerants and fuel used for space heating. These amount to about 10.6%

73
GRI 305-1; GRI 305-2, GRI 305-4. Scope 1 emissions have been calculated using the
emissions factors published by the DEFRA conversion factors 2021. For Scope 2 emissions
– for India, the source is the emissions factor in the CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian
Power Sector, User Guide, Version 16.0, March 2021, published by the Central Electricity
Authority of India. For Australia, Canada, Europe, North America, New Zealand, Hong Kong
and UK emission factors specific to the region published by local authorities are used. For
other countries IEA v4 emission factors 2021 and GHG protocol/ IEA 2021 have been used.

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 218

of the Scope 1 + Scope 2 carbon footprint in FY 2022. The remaining 89.4%
is from indirect emissions, referred to as Scope 2 emissions, associated with
purchased electricity. The breakup is provided as required in below table.
Parameter

Unit

FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up
of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O,
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)

Metric tonnes
of CO2

16,684

16,284

- CO2

tCO2e

2,813

2,789

- CH4

tCO2e

1.38

8.6

- N20

tCO2e

28.3

4.7

- HFC

tCO2e

13,841

13,505

Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up
of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O,
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)

Metric tonnes
of CO2
equivalent

141,045

193,994

Total Scope 1 and Scope 2
emissions per rupee of turnover

tCO2e/INR

0.00000008

0.00000013

7.

Yes. TCS has taken up the target to reduce its absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2
carbon footprint by 70% by 2025 and become net zero by 2030. To achieve
these targets, the green-house gas management approach has four key
levers – green infrastructure, green IT, IT-enabled operational efficiencies,
and renewable energy. These energy efficiency initiatives have resulted in
avoidance of GHG emissions of approximately 3,200 tCO2e in FY 2022.
Green Infrastructure and IT enabled operational efficiency:
All new campuses owned by TCS are designed according to green building
standards for energy and resource efficiency. They have roof top solar
photovoltaic installations to reduce the carbon footprint. Currently, 34 TCS
offices spanning across over 28.2 million sq. ft of office area, are certified
green buildings by Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). These make up over
64.4% of TCS’ total real estate portfolio in India.

Total Scope 1 and Scope 2
emission intensity (optional)74
– the relevant metric may be
selected by the entity

In FY 2022, projects were taken up to improve the energy efficiency in
existing buildings as well through retrofits. Cooling systems were upgrade to
efficient energy star rated appliances. UPS resizing and consolidation. Modular
UPS were adopted where feasible. Other auxiliaries like pumps, cooling towers,
etc. were also replaced. TCS’ resource optimization center continues to help
monitor the energy use on real time basis to optimize it further by leveraging
AI and ML.

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has
been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external
agency.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young
Associates LLP (EY).

TCS has not calculated the emission intensity per full time employee (FTE) during the
pandemic years as the employees working out of offices was very less.

Green IT:
Green IT initiatives include a) IT Energy optimization in Data center and
Equipment rooms and b) IT energy optimization in the delivery centers. Data
center and Equipment room efficiency projects included replacement of over

74

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas
emission? If Yes, then provide details75.

75

GRI 305-5
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 219

20 UPSs and 30 cooling units with more efficiency systems. The company
achieved PUE of 1.65 at the two owned-premise TCS data centers at Yantra
Park and Siruseri. Looking forward, the company is incorporating next-gen
green data center practices with futuristic and modular technologies like
Modular UPS, Cold Aisle Containment, real time monitoring of temperature
and energy consumption, etc​. For IT energy optimization in the delivery
center, the energy efficiency initiatives are through switching off/replacement
of excess capacity/inefficient UPSs, replacement of desktops with laptops​and
improved rack per user ratio.

8.

Parameter

The company continued to augment the roof top solar photo voltaic
installations this year as well taking the total installed capacity to 10.2 MWp
contributing to 3.76 percent of total electricity use in the reporting year.
Solar roof top installations at Adibatla Hyderabad (2,154 kWp) and TCS
Center Kochi (207 kWp) was completed within the reporting year. The
company increased the renewable energy procurement through third party
PPA for solar energy at TCS Siruseri office and switch over to green tariff
for its operations in the states of Karnataka and Maharashtra. This resulted
in an increase in the renewable energy use to 37.2% of the company’s total
energy use in FY 2022. TCS is committed to improve the RE mix in its energy
portfolio further in the coming years.

FY 2020-21

Plastic waste (A)

42.9

10.4

E-waste (B)

563

16678

Bio-medical waste (C)

1.61

-

Construction and demolition waste (D)

62.4

-

Battery waste (E)

286

175

Radioactive waste (F)

NA

NA

Other Hazardous waste. Please
specify, if any. (G)

27.6

28.7

Other Non-hazardous waste generated
(H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up by
composition i.e. by materials relevant to the
sector)

2,351

1,794

3,384.5

2,174.2

Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)

For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, reusing or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste

Carbon Neutrality:

76

FY 2021-22

Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)

Renewable Energy

The company has become carbon neutral across Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon
footprint for its operations in Asia Pacific (APAC)76 , Europe and North
America (NA) for FY 2022 in line with PAS 2060:2014 standards assured by
Bureau Veritas India Limited.

Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following
format77:

(i) Recycled **
- Battery

258

190

GRI 306-3; 306-4; 306-5
The value of e-waste generated in MT in FY 2021 pertains only to the consumer e-waste.
FY 2022 value includes consumer and IT e-waste in MT
77
78

Excluding Japan

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 220

Parameter
-E-waste

FY 2021-22
583

11579

-Hazardous waste

27.0

20.6

-Non-Hazardous waste

1,077

703

38

8.47

-Plastic Waste
-Construction & Demolition waste

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has
been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external
agency.

FY 2020-21

Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young
Associates LLP (EY).
9.

61.6

(ii) Re-used
(iii) Other recovery operations
Total

2,044.6

1,037.1

For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal
method (in metric tonnes)

TCS being an IT services and consulting organization, does not manufacture
physical products and therefore does not use any hazardous or toxic chemicals
in any of its processes. The company has offices and facility operations, and
the waste is generated from the auxiliary processes used to run these facilities.
Based on the nature of services, TCS’ facilities mostly generate electronic,
electrical, and municipal solid waste, and generate very less hazardous waste
and do not use toxic chemicals. Potentially hazardous and regulated wastes
such as lead-acid batteries and waste lube oil are generated in relatively
smaller proportions which are disposed through government approved
recyclers as per regulations. E-waste is disposed to government approved
e-waste recyclers.

Category of waste
(i) Incineration
-Biomedical waste

1.61

-Non-hazardous waste

36.4

(ii) Landfilling
-Non-hazardous waste

1,112

813

1,150

813

(iii) Other disposal operations
Total

** 100% of the regulated waste (hazardous wastes, e-waste, battery waste),
plastic wastes, paper & packaging wastes are disposed through recycling. The
generated quantities, if remaining at the end of the financial year for disposal,
are stored at the facilities and recycled through approved/ authorized vendors.

79
The value for e-waste disposed in MT in FY 2021 pertains only to the consumer e-waste,
as IT e-waste disposed was recorded in numbers in FY 2021 (26,479 units). FY 2022 value
includes consumer and IT e-waste in MT.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your
establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your company to
reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and
processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes80.

TCS is committed to sustain the best practices that have already been
institutionalized like segregation of all recyclable wastes, 100% compliance to
management practices for regulated wastes like hazardous and e-waste and
100% recycling on printer and toner cartridges, paper and packaging wastes.
TCS also ensures 100% disposal of biomedical waste (BMW) through govt
authorized BMW disposal agencies in India as per regulatory requirements.
The company targets to maximize the recycling and reuse of all waste
categories to divert waste from landfill.
80

GRI 306-2
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 221

10. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity
hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format81:
S.
No.

Location of operations/offices

Type of operations

Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance are being complied with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.

1

TCS Kalinga Park, Chandaka Industrial
Estate, Bhubanewar, Odisha

Software Consultancy Services

Yes, the company has obtained environmental clearance for the premises. TCS office is located in
the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) developed by the Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development
Corporation (IDCO).

11. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial year82:

81
82

Name and brief details of project

EIA
Notification No.

Date

Whether conducted
by independent
external agency (Yes
/ No)

Results
communicated in
public domain
(Yes / No)

Relevant Web link

Technocity, Trivandrum
Located at Pallipuram, Trivandrum, Kerala.
It is situated at about 22 Kms from
Trivandrum International airport and about
10 Kms from the existing TCS campus at
Technopark. The land for the project is
leased from Technopark (a society wholly
controlled by Kerala Government)

SIA/KL/
MIS/209935/2021,
1896/EC1/2021/SEIAA

Oct 07, 2021

Yes

Yes

http://www.seiaakerala.in/uploads/
doc/373f52abc888c38849b69c77235b200d.pdf

TCS Siruseri New Tech Park SEZ is located
at Egattur, Chennai, SIPCOT IT Park,
Siruseri with built-up area of 3.2 Million sq.
ft and with 20,000 no. of Employees. It
is located at about 30 Kms from Chennai
airport.

SEIAA-TN/F.No:7790/
EC/8(b)-770/20-21
dated 30.06.2021

Jun 30, 2021

Yes

Yes

http://environmentclearance.nic.
in/writereaddata/FormB/EC/EC_
Letter/07232021655485357790ec.pdf

GRI 304-1
GRI 413-1, GRI 303-1

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 222

12. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the
following format83:
Yes, TCS has complied with applicable environmental law/regulations / guidelines applicable in India. No fine/penalty/action was initiated against the entity under any of
the applicable environmental laws/regulation/guidelines.
S.
No.

Specify the law / regulation / guidelines
which was not complied with

Provide details of the noncompliance

Any fines / penalties / action taken by regulatory agencies such as
pollution control boards or by courts

Corrective action taken, if any

NA

NA

NA

NA

Leadership Indicators
1.

Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, in the following format:
This information has been covered in Principle 6, Q1 of the Essential Indicators84.

83
84

GRI 2-27
GRI 302-1

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 223

Provide the following details related to water discharged85:

2.

Parameter

FY 2021-22

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has
been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external
agency.

FY 2020-21

Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)

Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young
Associates LLP (EY).

(i)

To Surface water

-

No treatment

0

0

-

With treatment – please specify level of Treatment

0

0

Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in
kiloliters):

(ii)

To Groundwater

-

No treatment

0

0

For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the
following information86:

-

With treatment – please specify level of Treatment

0

0

3.

This section covers details pertaining to India geography only

(iii) To Seawater
-

No treatment

0

0

-

With treatment – please specify level of Treatment

0

0

19,216

17,565

(iv) Sent to third-parties
-

No treatment
Note: Wastewater sent for municipal treatment

-

With treatment – please specify level of Treatment

a)

Treated at TCS facilities (Tertiary treatment)

31,075

22,835

b)	Sent to builder STP for treatment (Tertiary
treatment)

54,998

57,452

(i)

Name of the area Data provided for 14 areas as per CGWB (Central
Ground Water Board) in individual tabs

(ii)

Nature of operations IT Services, Products and Platforms

(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter

FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i)

Surface water

0

0

Others

(ii)

Groundwater

-

No treatment

0

(iii)

Third party water

-

With treatment – please specify level of Treatment

0

0

(iv)

Seawater / desalinated water

0

0

105,289

97,851

(v)

Others

0

0

531,427

526,066

(v)

Total water discharged (in kiloliters)

Above data covers details pertaining to India geography only.
85

GRI 303-4

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

0

Total volume of water withdrawal
(in kiloliters)
86

0

0

531,427

526,066

GRI 303-3, 303-4
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 224

Parameter
Total volume of water consumption
(in kiloliters)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water
consumed / turnover)

FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

Parameter

520,733

516,889

0.00000027

0.00000031

Into Surface water

-

No treatment

-	With treatment – please specify level of
treatment
(ii)

Into Groundwater

-

No treatment

-	With treatment – please specify level of
treatment
(iii)

Into Seawater

-

No treatment

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0
0

No treatment
Note: Wastewater sent for municipal treatment

7,622

6,145

-	With treatment–please specify level of
treatment
Note: Tertiary treatment

3,071

3,033

(iv)

Sent to third-parties

(v)

Others

-

No treatment

Total water discharged (in kiloliters)

0

0

10,694

9,178

Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the
following format87:

Parameter

Unit

Total Scope 3 emissions (Breakup of the GHG into CO2, CH4,
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if
available)

Metric tonnes
of CO2
equivalent

358,452

234,614

Category 1 – Purchased goods &
services

tCO2e

12,020

13,184

FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

Category 2 – Capital goods

tCO2e

111,290

128,230

Category 3 Fuel and energy
related activities (not included in
Scope 1 or 2)

tCO2e

52,415

60,022

Category 4 – Upstream
transportation and distribution

tCO2e

7,542

9,030

0
87

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

0

Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young
Associates LLP (EY).
4.

0

-	With treatment – please specify level of
treatment

-	With treatment – please specify level of
treatment

FY 2020-21

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been
carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.

Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i)

FY 2021-22

GRI 305-3; GRI 305-4
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 225

Parameter

Unit

Category 5 – Waste generated in
operations

tCO2e

639

492

Category 7 – Employee
tCO2e
commuting
(Work from home (WFH) emission
is included in this category as
per GHG protocol since both are
pandemic years)

139,50488

135,66789

Category 6 – Business travel

tCO2e

Total Scope 3 emissions
per rupee of turnover

tCO2e/INR

Total Scope 3 emission intensity
(optional)90 – the relevant metric
may be selected by the entity

-

FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

35,043

15,458

0.00000019

0.00000022

-

-

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been
carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young
Associates LLP (EY).
5. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10
of Essential Indicators above, provide details of significant direct & indirect
impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention
and remediation activities91.

This includes WFH emissions of 131,761 tCO2e for FY22
Recalculated the FY 2021 values by including WFH emissions (127,469 tCO2e)
Not calculated the emission intensity per full time employee (FTE) during the pandemic
years as very few employees were working out of offices.
91
GRI 304-2; GRI 304-3

Sr.
No

Initiative undertaken

Details of the initiative
(Web-link, if any, may
be provided along-with
summary)

Outcome of the
initiative

1

Chandaka Wildlife sanctuary
authority has developed the
trench followed by 5 feet
wall with fencing along the
border of the sanctuary
so that the possibility
of elephants crossing
the trench is eliminated
hence, any impact of TCS
operations on wildlife is not
expected. However, TCS
has undertaken following
initiatives:

● Installation of inward
facing low intensity
peripheral lights

● Inward direction
peripheral lights of
low intensity to avoid
any impact on wildlife
movement. High mast
lights in TCS parking area
are switched off after
11 pm.

● Minimizing light pollution
around the wildlife sanctuary
● Internal initiatives
within its campus towards
biodiversity conservation
and enhancement
● Internal initiatives
towards water and waste
management

● Plantation of native/
indigenous plants,
medicinal and spice
garden, butterfly garden
● Provision of organic
waste technologies Vermicomposting and
organic waste converter
● Provision of rainwater
harvesting structure and
sewage treatment plant
(STP)

● Protection of native/
medicinal, plant species as
well as butterfly species.
● Garden and food waste
vermicomposting and
organic waste composting
technology has been
installed to generated
organic manure and it is
reused for landscaping.
● 100% treatment and
recycling of wastewater
inside the premises.
● Groundwater
recharging pits for
enriching the water table.

88
89
90

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

As a proactive initiative, TCS has included ‘Urban Biodiversity’ conservation
as an integral part of TCS Environmental Policy and its long-term plan for
sustainable development. Biodiversity action plan is implemented across
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 226

19 TCS campuses in India to conserve and enhance urban biodiversity.
Biodiversity mapping for various flora and fauna species is conducted on an
annual basis. TCS campuses across India are home to over 600 flora species
and 180+ fauna species. 10 species of IUCN category trees i.e., Endemic,
Endangered, Threatened, Vulnerable and Rare species, are protected within
TCS campuses.
6.

7.

TCS has a well-established business continuity and disaster management
framework that is fully aligned to ISO 22301:2019, CMMI-SVC and is
integrated with other quality management systems for consistent deployment
across the organization. The function is governed by a trained pool of
subject matter experts (Crisis Management Leaders) at various levels of the
organization ensuring upkeep of business continuity plans, planning and
executing drills to achieve seamless resumption, in case of any disruption. The
entire process is integrated with other business processes through
in-house developed tools that support planning and communication with all
stakeholders.

If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative
technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, or reduce impact
due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the
following format:

Sr.
No

Initiative
undertaken

Details of the initiative (Web-link,
if any, may be provided along-with
summary)

Outcome of the
initiative

1

HVAC energy
efficiency projects

Aged / inefficient air conditioners
upgraded with BEE star rated
equipment

1,374,439 kWh
energy savings

2

UPS based energy
efficiency projects

UPS resizing / consolidation/ upgrades
of old UPSs with Modular UPS /Energy
efficient UPS

1,681,454 kWh
energy savings

3

Roof top solar
projects

Completed the roof top solar projects
in Adi Balta (2,154 kWp) in Nov 21 and
TCS center (207 kWp) Kochi in Oct 21

1,030,766 kWh
generation through
solar roof top

8.

Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from
the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or adaptation measures
have been taken by the entity in this regard92.
No significant adverse impact envisaged from TCS’ value chain.

9.

Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such
partners) that were assessed for environmental impacts93.
100% of the value chain partners were assessed for environmental impacts.

92
93

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan?
Give details in 100 words/ web link.

GRI 308-2
GRI 308-1, GRI 308-2
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 227

PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory
policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent

2.

Essential Indicators
1.

a.

		
b.

Sr.
No.

Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations94

Name of authority

Ans. 10 in India. In addition, TCS also works through some of the
bilateral/ multilateral international chambers based out of India.

Not Applicable (No adverse order received in last Financial Year)

List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined
based on the total members of such body) the entity is a member of/
affiliated to95
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations

Reach of trade
and industry
chambers/
associations
(State/National)

1

NASSCOM

National

2

Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)

National

3

Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI)

National

4

ASSOCHAM

National

5

Public Affairs Forum of India

National

6

The Institute of Management Consultants of India

National

7

British Business Promotion Association

8

Indo American Chamber of Commerce

National

9

All India Management Association

National

10

Indo-Belgian-Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce and
Industry

94
95

Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues
related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders
from regulatory authorities.

GRI 2-28
GRI 2-28

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

International

International

Brief of the case

Corrective action taken

PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable
development
Essential Indicators
1.

Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the
entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial year.96

Name and brief details
of project

Whether conducted
by independent
external agency
(Yes/No)

Results
communicated
in public domain
(Yes/No)

Relevant web
link

Tata Translational
Cancer Research Centre
(TTCRC) - Setting
up a cancer R&D
centre at Tata Medical
Cancer, Kolkata, where
researchers are working
together for developing/
enhancing personalized
solutions for cancer
patients.

Yes

Yes

https://on.tcs.
com/IAR

96

413-1
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 228

2.

3.

Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and
Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity, in the following
format:

PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their
consumers in a responsible manner

Not applicable

1.

Essential Indicators

Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the
community97.

TCS’ customers are provided with multiple mechanisms to report complaints
or feedback.

All agreements between TCS and the stakeholders, contain clauses on
handling of grievances, disputes etc. Additionally, TCS’ Regional Leaders are
connected at the ground level and provide feedback for implementation if
any. Post program implementation, surveys and questionnaires capture the
feedback which is duly implemented.
4.

For privacy specific complaints, they can also raise incidents with TCS’ Data
Protection or Privacy Officers. The contact details of the data protection and
privacy officers is available in TCS website at https://www.tcs.com/privacy-policy
or as otherwise notified to the customers from time to time.
Each customer concern is addressed with utmost care at all levels. TCS teams
acknowledge, analyze the incidents and develop an action plan to resolve it.
The team engages with the customer, to validate the action plan and regularly
updates customers about the progress of action taken. Any feedback from
the customer is taken positively and action plans are refined to ensure utmost
customer satisfaction.

Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from
suppliers98:
FY 2021-22

FY 2020-21

Directly sourced from MSMEs / small
producers

-

-

Sourced directly from within the district and
neighboring districts

-

-

2.

•	The periodic exercise to validate the MSME status of existing vendors in
the empaneled list is currently underway. This data will be available from
the next reporting year.

Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all
products/service that carry information about:
Not Applicable

Note:

GRI 2-25, GRI 413-1
98
GRI 204-1

Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer
complaints and feedback99.

As a % to total
turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product

NA

Safe and responsible usage

NA

Recycling and / or safe disposal

NA

97

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

99

GRI 2-25
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 229

3.

Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2021-22

4.

Remarks

Received
during the year

Pending resolution
at end of year

Data privacy

6

2

Advertising

NA

Cyber-security

FY 2020-21

Remarks

Received during
the year

Pending resolution
at end of year

TCS treats Customers as consumers;
The breaches as confirmed by
customer was due to accidental data
sharing with unintended recipients

13

0

TCS treats Customers as
consumers; The breaches as
confirmed by customer was
due to accidental data sharing
with unintended recipients

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

NIL

Delivery of essential services

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Restrictive Trade Practices

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Unfair Trade Practices

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Not applicable as TCS does not have any products that can entail safety issues

5.

Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy100.
Yes.
From data privacy aspects, TCS’ commitment to privacy is espoused in its TCS Global Privacy Policy. This is accessible at https://www.tcs.com/privacy-policy-commitment.
TCS has defined and implemented a Global Privacy policy that is applicable to all its legal entities, branches, lines of businesses and functions. The global privacy policy is
a “gold standard of privacy” addressing applicable privacy regulations and based on inputs from industry bodies dealing with privacy.

100

GRI 2-23

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 230

The Global Privacy policy covers all stakeholders
across the value chain including – employees
(full-time and contracted), customers, partners,
vendors/suppliers, and any other stakeholder
whose Personal Data is processed. All third
parties (vendors/suppliers) are engaged /
contracted with adequate due diligence, and
commitment towards privacy obligations.

and constantly monitoring the publication of
vulnerabilities or various tools and software
in use in the organization. The threat intel
information is processed in TCS’ AI/ML based
correlation tools and automated scripts ensure
that the indicators of compromise from the
threat feeds are automictically blocked on the
perimeter devices.

From a cyber security aspect, TCS has
implemented cutting edge security tools to
protect itself from external as well as internal
threats.

TCS has also rearchitected its network and
has implemented tools in tandem to work in
a defence in depth model to provide a holistic
protection against threat vectors/actors.
The defence in depth model has a strong
multi-layered perimeter setup consisting
of Next Gen Firewalls, Intrusion Prevention
Systems, DDoS attack protection for critical
resources, Web Application Firewalls, Advanced
malware protection and other email gateway
security controls. TCS network design is
compartmentalized for every customer and
critical resources to ensure that the services
provided to each customer remains isolated.
This network design ensures that if there is an
impact at one customer end, say a ransomware
attack on a customer network, the segregated
network along with the company’s incident
response process ensures that there is no
impact to other network segments.

TCS has moved to a proactive early detection
approach. Any approach to protect an
organization from threats, needs to focus
on all the risks and learnings from various
attacks, understanding the modus operandi
of the attacker and ensure that adequate
processes and latest in technology are
implemented to protect and provide proactive
detection capabilities. TCS has implemented a
comprehensive threat intelligence framework
to proactively identify external threats as they
unfold globally, be it a ransomware propagation,
a nation state actor group, attackers for purely
monetary gain etc. The threat intelligence
framework includes gathering intel on external
threats by means of commercial, government,
open source and vendor security feeds, threat
hunting in dark web, analyse new attack patterns
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

In addition to the perimeter defences, TCS has
implemented technical controls and processes

within the network to protect the information
resources. Tools based on machine learning that
can detect and prevent known and unknown
ransomware, malware and active intruder
attempts to exploit like lateral movement,
privilege escalation or credential dumping in
addition to many other malicious actions. AI/
ML tools that can detect behaviour anomalies
of users. Tools that can correlate audit logs
from various sources. Alerts from these tools
are monitored 24x7x365 by the TCS Cyber
Security Operations Center.
TCS has also implanted a strong vulnerability
management program which includes
proactively identifying vulnerabilities in its
network and systems by conducting periodic
vulnerability assessments, penetration tests and
red team exercises.
6.

Provide details of any corrective actions
taken or underway on issues relating to
advertising, and delivery of essential services;
cyber security and data privacy of customers;
re-occurrence of instances of product
recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory
authorities on safety of products / services.
Please refer to the answer to Q.5 above. All the
initiatives explained above has ensured that TCS
did not have any incidents leading to regulatory
issues / penalties.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 231

Leadership Indicators
1.

3.

Channels / platforms where information on
products and services of the entity can be
accessed (provide web link, if available).
www.tcs.com

2.

Steps taken to inform and educate consumers
about safe and responsible usage of products
and/or services.
Not applicable, as TCS does not have any
products/services that can entail safety issues or
a usage abuse.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

4.

Mechanisms in place to inform consumers
of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of
essential services.

products / services of the entity, significant
locations of operation of the entity or the
entity as a whole? (Yes/No)

Each customer relationship in TCS has a
business continuity mechanism to handle any
disruption of services/products and a suitable
communication plan.

Not Applicable

Does the entity display product information
on the product over and above what is
mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not
Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did
your entity carry out any survey with regard
to consumer satisfaction relating to the major

5.

Provide the following information relating to
data breaches:
Number of instances of data breaches alongwith impact : As a data fiduciary, TCS has not
had any data breach incidents in FY 2022.
a.

Percentage of data breaches involving
personally ide3ntifiable information of
customers : 0%

Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 232

Consolidated
Financial Statements

Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial
statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited
(hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”)
and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its
subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”),
which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as
at 31 March 2022, and the consolidated statement
of profit and loss (including other comprehensive
income), consolidated statement of changes in
equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for
the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated
financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies and other explanatory
information (hereinafter referred to as “the
consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information
and according to the explanations given to us, the
aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the
information required by the Companies Act, 2013
(“Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and
fair view in conformity with the accounting principles
generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state
of affairs of the Group as at 31 March 2022, of its
consolidated profit and other comprehensive loss,

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash
flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the
Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under
those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated
Financial Statements section of our report. We are
independent of the Group in accordance with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit
of the consolidated financial statements in terms
of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of India and the relevant
provisions of the Act, and we have fulfilled our other
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence
obtained by us is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our opinion on the consolidated
financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters (‘KAM’) are those matters that, in
our professional judgment, were of most significance
in our audit of the consolidated financial statements
of the current period. These matters were addressed
in the context of our audit of the consolidated
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate
opinion on these matters.
Consolidated Financial Statements | 233

Description of Key Audit Matter

The Key audit matter

The Key audit matter

How the matter was addressed in our audit

•

these contracts may involve onerous
obligations which requires critical assessment
of foreseeable losses to be made by the
Group; and

•

at year-end, significant amount of work in
progress (Contract assets), related to these
contracts are recognised on the balance
sheet.

Revenue recognition– Fixed price contracts
The Group inter alia engages in Fixed-price
contracts, wherein, revenue is recognized using
the percentage of completion computed as per
the input method based on the Group’s estimate
of contract costs (Refer Note 5(a) and Note 12 to
the consolidated financial statements).
We identified revenue recognition of fixed price
contracts where the percentage of completion is
used as a Key Audit Matter since –
•

•

there is an inherent risk and presumed fraud
risk around the accuracy and existence
of revenues recognised considering the
customised and complex nature of these
contracts and significant inputs of IT systems;
application of revenue recognition accounting
standard (Ind AS 115, Revenue from
Contracts with customers) is complex and
involves a number of key judgments and
estimates in mainly identifying performance
obligations, related transaction price and
estimating the future cost-to-completion of
these contracts, which is used to determine
the percentage of completion of the relevant
performance obligation;

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Our audit procedures included the following:
•

Obtained an understanding of the systems,
processes and controls implemented by the
Group for recording and computing revenue
and the associated contract assets, unearned
and deferred revenue balances.

•

Including involvement of our Information
technology (‘IT’) specialists, as required:
 Assessed the IT environment in which
the business systems operate and tested
system controls over computation of
revenue recognised;
 Tested the IT controls over
appropriateness of cost and revenue
reports generated by the system;
 Tested the controls pertaining to
allocation of resources and budgeting
systems which prevent the unauthorized
recording/changes to costs incurred; and


Tested on a random sampling basis the
controls relating to the estimation of
contract costs required to complete the
respective projects.

How the matter was addressed in our audit
•

On selected specific and statistical samples
of contracts, we tested that the revenue
recognized is in accordance with the revenue
recognition accounting standard including –
 Evaluated the identification of
performance obligations and the ascribed
transaction price;
 For testing the Group’s computation
of the estimation of contract costs and
onerous obligations, if any. We:
		 •	assessed that the estimates of costs
to complete were reviewed and
approved by appropriate designated
management personnel;
		 •	performed a retrospective analysis of
costs incurred with estimated costs
to identify significant variations and
challenged whether those variations
are required to be considered in
estimating the remaining costs to
complete the contract;
		 •	assessed the appropriateness of
work in progress (contract assets) on
balance sheet date by evaluating the
underlying documentation to identify
possible changes in estimated costs to
complete the remaining performance
obligations; and
		 •	inspected underlying documents and
performed analytics to determine
reasonableness of contract costs.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 234

Other Information
The Holding Company’s management and Board of
Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information
included in the Holding Company’s Annual Report,
but does not include the financial statements and our
auditor’s report thereon. The Holding Company’s
annual report is expected to be made available to us
after the date of this auditor’s report
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements
does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the
other information identified above when it becomes
available and, in doing so, consider whether the
other information is materially inconsistent with the
consolidated financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be
materially misstated.
When we read the Holding Company’s annual
report, if we conclude that there is a material
misstatement therein, we are required to
communicate the matter to those charged with
governance and take necessary actions, as applicable
under the relevant laws and regulations.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management’s and Board of Directors’
Responsibilities for the Consolidated Financial
Statements
The Holding Company’s Management and Board
of Directors are responsible for the preparation
and presentation of these consolidated financial
statements in terms of the requirements of the Act
that give a true and fair view of the consolidated
state of affairs, consolidated profit/ loss and other
comprehensive income, consolidated statement
of changes in equity and consolidated cash flows
of the Group in accordance with the accounting
principles generally accepted in India, including the
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under
Section 133 of the Act. The respective Management
and Board of Directors of the Companies included
in the Group are responsible for maintenance of
adequate accounting records in accordance with the
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of
each Company and for preventing and detecting
frauds and other irregularities; the selection and
application of appropriate accounting policies;
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable
and prudent; and the design, implementation and
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls
that were operating effectively for ensuring the
accuracy and completeness of the accounting
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation

of the consolidated financial statements that give
a true and fair view and are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which
have been used for the purpose of preparation
of the consolidated financial statements by the
Management and Board of Directors of the Holding
Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements,
the respective Management and Board of
Directors of the companies included in the Group
are responsible for assessing the ability of each
Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing,
as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting unless
the respective Board of Directors either intends to
liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has
no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the Companies
included in the Group are responsible for overseeing
the financial reporting process of each Company.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the consolidated financial statements
as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
Consolidated Financial Statements | 235

an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance,
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with SAs will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these
consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we
exercise professional judgment and maintain
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We
also:
•

•

Identify and assess the risks of material
misstatement of the consolidated financial
statements, whether due to fraud or error,
design and perform audit procedures responsive
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

•

•

relevant to the audit in order to design
audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the
Act, we are also responsible for expressing
our opinion on the internal financial controls
with reference to the consolidated financial
statements and the operating effectiveness of
such controls.

•

Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting
policies used and the reasonableness of
accounting estimates and related disclosures
made by Management and Board of Directors.

Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and
content of the consolidated financial statements,
including the disclosures, and whether the
consolidated financial statements represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner
that achieves fair presentation.

•

Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence
regarding the financial information of entities
within the Group to express an opinion on
the consolidated financial statements. We
are responsible for the direction, supervision
and performance of the audit of financial
information of such entities included in the
consolidated financial statements. We remain
solely responsible for our audit opinion.

Conclude on the appropriateness of
Management and Board of Directors use of the
going concern basis of accounting in preparation
of consolidated financial statements and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a
material uncertainty exists related to events
or conditions that may cast significant doubt
on the appropriateness of this assumption.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in
our auditor’s report to the related disclosures
in the consolidated financial statements or,
if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our

auditor’s report. However, future events or
conditions may cause the Group to cease to
continue as a going concern.

We communicate with those charged with
governance of the Holding Company and such other
Companies included in the consolidated financial
statements of which we are the independent
auditors regarding, among other matters, the
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in
internal control that we identify during our audit.
Consolidated Financial Statements | 236

We also provide those charged with governance with
a statement that we have complied with relevant
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to
communicate with them all relationships and other
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on
our independence, and where applicable, related
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged
with governance, we determine those matters
that were of most significance in the audit of the
consolidated financial statements of the current
period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors’ report
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should
not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits
of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory
Requirements
1.

As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report)
Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central
Government of India in terms of Section 143
(11) of the Act, we give in the

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

“Annexure A” a statement on the matters
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to
the extent applicable.
2.

A.

for the purpose of preparation of the
consolidated financial statements.
		

d)

In our opinion, the aforesaid
consolidated financial statements
comply with the Ind AS specified under
Section 133 of the Act.

		

e)

On the basis of the written
representations received from the
directors of the Holding Company as
on 31 March 2022 taken on record
by the Board of Directors of the
Holding Company and on the basis of
written representations received by
the management from directors of its
subsidiaries which are incorporated in
India, as on 31 March 2022, none of
the directors of the Group companies
incorporated in India is disqualified
as on 31 March 2022 from being
appointed as a director in terms of
Section 164(2) of the Act.

		

f)

With respect to the adequacy of
the internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial
statements of the Holding Company
and its subsidiary companies

As required by Section 143(3) of the Act,
based on our audit, we report, to the
extent applicable, that :

		

a)

We have sought and obtained all the
information and explanations which to
the best of our knowledge and belief
were necessary for the purposes of
our audit of the aforesaid consolidated
financial statements.

		

b)

In our opinion, proper books of
account as required by law relating
to preparation of the aforesaid
consolidated financial statements have
been kept so far as it appears from our
examination of those books.

		

c)

The consolidated balance sheet, the
consolidated statement of profit and
loss (including other comprehensive
income), the consolidated statement of
changes in equity and the consolidated
statement of cash flows dealt with by
this Report are in agreement with the
relevant books of account maintained

Consolidated Financial Statements | 237

incorporated in India and the operating
effectiveness of such controls, refer to
our separate report in ‘Annexure B’.
B.

		

		

d)

(i)

With respect to the other matters to
be included in the Auditors’ Report in
accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
(Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our
opinion and to the best of our information
and according to the explanations given to
us:
a)

The consolidated financial statements
disclose the impact of pending
litigations as at 31 March 2022 on
the consolidated financial position
of the Group. Refer Note 20 to the
consolidated financial statements.

		

b)

The Group did not have any material
foreseeable losses on long-term
contracts including derivative contracts
during the year ended 31 March 2022.

		

c)

There has been no delay in
transferring amounts to the Investor
Education and Protection Fund by the
Holding Company and its subsidiary
companies incorporated in India during
the year ended 31 March 2022.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

				

				

The management has represented
that, to the best of its knowledge
and belief, no funds have been
advanced or loaned or invested
(either from borrowed funds
or share premium or any other
sources or kind of funds) by the
Holding Company or its subsidiary
companies incorporated in India
to or in any other persons or
entities, including foreign entities
(“Intermediaries”), with the
understanding, whether recorded
in writing or otherwise, that the
Intermediary shall:
•

•

directly or indirectly lend
or invest in other persons
or entities identified in
any manner whatsoever
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) by
or on behalf of the Holding
Company or its subsidiary
companies incorporated in
India or
provide any guarantee,
security or the like to or
on behalf of the Ultimate
Beneficiaries.

			

(ii)

The management has
represented, that, to the best
of its knowledge and belief, no
funds have been received by
the Holding Company or its
subsidiary companies incorporated
in India from any persons or
entities, including foreign entities
(“Funding Parties”), with the
understanding, whether recorded
in writing or otherwise, that the
Holding Company or its subsidiary
companies incorporated in India
shall:

				

•

directly or indirectly, lend
or invest in other persons
or entities identified in
any manner whatsoever
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) by
or on behalf of the Funding
Parties or

				

•

provide any guarantee,
security or the like from or
on behalf of the Ultimate
Beneficiaries

Consolidated Financial Statements | 238

			

		

e)

(iii) Based on such audit procedures
as considered reasonable and
appropriate in the circumstances,
nothing has come to our notice
that has caused us to believe that
the representations under subclause (d)(i) and (d)(ii) contain any
material mis-statement.
The dividend declared or paid during
the year by the Holding Company and
its subsidiary companies incorporated
in India are in compliance with section
123 of the Act.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

C.

		

With respect to the matter to be included
in the Auditors’ report under Section
197(16) of the Act:
In our opinion and according to the
information and explanation given to us,
the remuneration paid during the current
year by the Holding Company and its
subsidiaries which are incorporated in India
to its directors is in accordance with the
provisions of Section 197 of the Act. The
remuneration paid to any director by the
Holding Company and its subsidiaries which
are incorporated in India, is not in excess of
the limit laid down under Section 197 of

the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs
has not prescribed other details under
Section 197(16) of the Act which are
required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022

Mumbai
11 April 2022

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
UDIN: 22060154AGVFFO1633

Consolidated Financial Statements | 239

Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended
31 March 2022
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(xxi) According to the information and explanations given to us, in respect of the following companies incorporated in India and included in the consolidated financial
statements, the CARO report relating to them has not been issued by their auditors till the date of this audit report:
Name of the entities

CIN

Subsidiary

MP Online Limited

U72400MP2006PLC018777

Subsidiary

APT Online Limited

U75142TG2002PLC039671

Subsidiary

C-Edge Technologies Limited

U72900MH2006PLC159038

Subsidiary

Mahaonline Limited

U72900MH2010PLC206026

Subsidiary

TCS e-Serve International Limited

L22210MH1995PLC084781

Subsidiary
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022

Mumbai
11 April 2022

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
UDIN: 22060154AGVFFO1633

Consolidated Financial Statements | 240

Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’
Report on the consolidated financial
statements of Tata Consultancy Services
Limited for the year ended 31 March 2022
Report on the internal financial controls with
reference to the aforesaid consolidated financial
statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of
Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013
(Referred to in paragraph A(f) under ‘Report on
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section
of our report of even date)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated
financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services
Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding
Company”) as of and for the year ended 31 March
2022, we have audited the internal financial
controls with reference to the consolidated
financial statements of the Holding Company and
such companies incorporated in India under the
Companies Act, 2013 which are its subsidiary
companies, as of that date.
In our opinion, the Holding Company and such
companies incorporated in India which are its
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

subsidiary companies, have, in all material respects,
adequate internal financial controls with reference to
consolidated financial statements and such internal
financial controls were operating effectively as at 31
March 2022, based on the internal financial controls
with reference to consolidated financial statements
criteria established by such companies considering
the essential components of such internal controls
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
(the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s Responsibility for Internal
Financial Controls
The respective Company’s management and the
Board of Directors are responsible for establishing
and maintaining internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements
based on the criteria established by the respective
Company considering the essential components of
internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These
responsibilities include the design, implementation
and maintenance of adequate internal financial
controls that were operating effectively for ensuring
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business,
including adherence to the respective company’s
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention

and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and
completeness of the accounting records, and the
timely preparation of reliable financial information,
as required under the Companies Act, 2013
(hereinafter referred to as “the Act”).
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the internal financial controls with reference to
consolidated financial statements based on our
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with
the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing,
prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial
controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note
require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether adequate internal financial
controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements were established and maintained and
if such controls operated effectively in all material
respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to
obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of
the internal financial controls with reference to
consolidated financial statements and their operating
Consolidated Financial Statements | 241

effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements included obtaining an understanding
of internal financial controls with reference to
consolidated financial statements, assessing the
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of the internal controls based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the consolidated financial
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
audit opinion on the internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of consolidated financial statements

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated
financial statements includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of consolidated
financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorisations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection
of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on
the consolidated financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial
Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial
Statements

financial statements, including the possibility of
collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error
or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also,
projections of any evaluation of the internal financial
controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements to future periods are subject to the risk
that the internal financial controls with reference
to consolidated financial statements may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022

Mumbai
11 April 2022

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
UDIN: 22060154AGVFFO1633

Because of the inherent limitations of internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated

Consolidated Financial Statements | 242

Consolidated Balance Sheet
(` crore)
Note

As at
March 31, 2022

(` crore)

As at
March 31, 2021

ASSETS

		 Trade receivables

Non-current assets

			 Billed

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

8(b)

34,074

30,079

7,736

6,583

			 Unbilled

Property, plant and equipment

10(a)

10,774

Capital work-in-progress

10(a)

1,205

926

		 Cash and cash equivalents

8(c)

12,488

6,858

9

7,636

7,633

		 Other balances with banks

8(d)

5,733

2,471

Goodwill

10(b)

1,787

1,798

		 Loans

8(e)

6,445

11,472

Other intangible assets

10(c)

1,101

480

		 Other financial assets

8(f)

1,390

1,394

Right-of-use assets

11,110

Note

Income tax assets (net)

Financial assets
		 Investments

8(a)

213

Other assets

145

55

Total current assets
TOTAL ASSETS

55

273

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity

223

		 Trade receivables
			 Billed

8(b)

			 Unbilled

10(d)

11

19

10,151

11,236

1,08,310
1,41,514

99,280
1,30,759

		 Loans

8(e)

311

29

		 Other financial assets

8(f)

2,253

1,573

Share capital

8(m)

366

370

Other equity

11

88,773

86,063

89,139

86,433

1,983

1,845

Deferred tax assets (net)

Income tax assets (net)
17

3,708

3,931

Other assets

10(d)

2,023

1,613

33,204

31,479

10(e)

20

8

8(a)

30,262

29,160

Total non-current assets
Current assets
Inventories

Equity attributable to shareholders of the
Company
Non-controlling interests
Total equity

707

675

89,846

87,108

Financial assets
		 Investments
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 243

Consolidated Balance Sheet
(` crore)
Note

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

6,368

6,503

Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
		 Lease liabilities
		 Other financial liabilities

8(h)

572

280

Employee benefit obligations

14

677

749

Deferred tax liabilities (net)

17

Unearned and deferred revenue
Total non-current liabilities

590

767

1,110

1,197

9,317

9,496

Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
		 Lease liabilities

1,450

1,292

		 Trade payables

8(g)

8,045

7,860

NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

		 Other financial liabilities

8(h)

7,687

6,150

3,635

3,650
4,068

As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Rajesh Gopinathan
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
Chartered Accountants
CEO and
COO and Executive Director
Firm’s registration no:
Managing Director
101248W/W-100022

Unearned and deferred revenue
Other liabilities

10(f)

8,392

Provisions

10(g)

1,411

1,394

Employee benefit obligations

14

3,810

3,498

7,921

6,243

Income tax liabilities (net)
Total current liabilities
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

42,351

34,155

1,41,514

1,30,759

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Samir Seksaria
CFO

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Consolidated Financial Statements | 244

Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
(` crore)
Note

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Revenue from operations

12

1,91,754

1,64,177

Other income

13

4,018

3,134

1,95,772

1,67,311

TOTAL INCOME
Expenses
Employee benefit expenses

14

1,07,554

91,814

Cost of equipment and software licences

15(a)

1,163

1,462

Finance costs

16

784

637

4,604

4,065

15(b)

29,980

24,355

1,44,085

1,22,333

51,687

44,978

Depreciation and amortisation expense
Other expenses
TOTAL EXPENSES
PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM AND TAX
Exceptional item
Provision towards legal claim

20

PROFIT BEFORE TAX

(` crore)

-

1,218

51,687

43,760

Tax expense

Note

Year ended
March 31, 2021

OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
	Remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans

261

(82)

	Net change in fair values of investments in equity
shares carried at fair value through OCI

(4)

(2)

Income tax on items that will not be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss

19

11

	Net change in fair values of investments other than
equity shares carried at fair value through OCI

(516)

51

	Net change in intrinsic value of derivatives designated
as cash flow hedges

(37)

14

	Net change in time value of derivatives designated as
cash flow hedges

(34)

53

	Exchange differences on translation of financial
statements of foreign operations

20

448

Income tax on items that will be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss

196

(32)

Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit
or loss

Current tax

17

13,654

11,635

Deferred tax

17

(416)

(437)

TOTAL TAX EXPENSE

13,238

11,198

TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME / (LOSSES)

PROFIT FOR THE YEAR

38,449

32,562

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Year ended
March 31, 2022

(95)

461

38,354

33,023

Consolidated Financial Statements | 245

Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
(` crore)
Note

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Profit for the year attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company

38,327

32,430

122

132

38,449

32,562

Shareholders of the Company

(63)

484

Non-controlling interests

(32)

(23)

(95)

461

38,264

32,914

Non-controlling interests
Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to:

Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company
Non-controlling interests
Earnings per equity share:- Basic and diluted (`)
Weighted average number of equity shares

18

90

109

38,354

33,023

103.62

86.71

369,88,32,195

374,01,10,733

NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Rajesh Gopinathan
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
Chartered Accountants
CEO and
COO and Executive Director
Firm’s registration no:
Managing Director
101248W/W-100022

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Samir Seksaria
CFO

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Mumbai, April 11, 2022
Consolidated Financial Statements | 246

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
A.

EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL

(` crore)

Balance as at April 1, 2021

Changes in equity share capital
due to prior period errors

370

Balance as at April 1, 2020

Restated balance as at
April 1, 2021
-

Changes in equity share capital
due to prior period errors

375

370

Changes in equity share capital
during the year*
(4)

375

Changes in equity share capital
during the year*
(5)

Restated balance as at
April 1, 2020
-

Balance as at March 31, 2022
366
(` crore)
Balance as at March 31, 2021
370

*Refer Note 8(m).

B.

OTHER EQUITY

Balance as at April 1, 2021
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income / (losses)
Total comprehensive income
Dividend
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares1
Tax on buy-back of equity shares1
Buy-back of equity shares1
Transfer to Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve
Transfer from Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve
Transfer to reserves
Balance as at March 31, 2022
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

(` crore)
Reserves and surplus
General
Special
reserve Economic Zone
re-investment
reserve
27
2,538
9,407

Capital
reserve

Capital
redemption
reserve

75
-

436
4
-

-

-

-

75

440

(27)
-

Items of other comprehensive income
Investment Cash flow hedging reserve
Foreign
revaluation
currency
Intrinsic
Time value
reserve
translation
value
reserve
828
56
(27)
2,137
(340)
(29)
(26)
52
(340)
(29)
(26)
52
-

Equity
attributable to
shareholders
of the
Company
86,063
38,327
(63)
38,264
(13,317)
(49)
(4,192)
(17,996)
-

Noncontrolling
interests

Total
equity

675
122
(32)
90
(58)
-

86,738
38,449
(95)
38,354
(13,375)
(49)
(4,192)
(17,996)
-

Retained
earnings

Statutory
reserve

79,586
38,327
280
38,607
(13,317)
(49)
(4,192)
(18,000)
(9,407)

407
-

(4,658)

4,658

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

7,287

272
78,158

(245)
162

488

27

(53)

2,189

88,773

707

89,480

Consolidated Financial Statements | 247

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

Balance as at April 1, 2020
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income / (losses)
Total comprehensive income
Dividend
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares1
Tax on liability towards buy-back of
equity shares1
Buy-back of equity shares1
Transfer to Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve
Transfer from Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve
Transfer to reserves
Balance as at March 31, 2021

Reserves and surplus
General
Special
reserve Economic Zone
re-investment
reserve
27
1,594
-

Capital
reserve

Capital
redemption
reserve

75
-

431
-

-

5
-

-

-

-

75

436

Items of other comprehensive income
Foreign
Investment Cash flow hedging reserve
currency
revaluation
Intrinsic
Time value
reserve
translation
value
reserve
796
45
(68)
1,666
32
11
41
471
32
11
41
471
-

(` crore)
Total
equity

Equity
attributable to
shareholders
of the
Company
83,751
32,430
484
32,914
(10,850)
(31)
(3,726)

Noncontrolling
interests
623
132
(23)
109
(57)
-

84,374
32,562
461
33,023
(10,907)
(31)
(3,726)

Retained
earnings

Statutory
reserve

78,810
32,430
(71)
32,359
(10,850)
(31)
(3,726)

375
-

5,058

(16,000)
(5,058)

-

-

-

-

-

(15,995)
-

-

(15,995)
-

-

(4,114)

4,114

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

27

2,538

(32)
79,586

32
407

828

56

(27)

2,137

86,063

675

86,738

Refer note 8(m).

1

Gain of `280 crore and loss of `71 crore on remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans (net of tax) is recognised as a part of retained earnings for the years ended March 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively.
Total equity (primarily retained earnings) includes `1,759 crore and `1,366 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified
purposes.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 248

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Nature and purpose of reserves
(a)

(g)

This reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses arising on the revaluation of
equity and debt instruments on the balance sheet date measured at fair value through
other comprehensive income. The reserves accumulated will be reclassified to retained
earnings and profit and loss respectively, when such instruments are disposed.

Capital reserve
The Group recognises profit and loss on purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the
Group’s own equity instruments to capital reserve.

(b)

Capital redemption reserve
As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve is created when company
purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium. A sum equal to the
nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred to capital redemption reserve.
The reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of section 69 of the Companies
Act, 2013.

(c)

General reserve
The general reserve is a free reserve which is used from time to time to transfer profits
from / to retained earnings for appropriation purposes. As the general reserve is created
by a transfer from one component of equity to another and is not an item of other
comprehensive income, items included in the general reserve will not be reclassified
subsequently to statement of profit and loss.

(d)

Retained earnings
This reserve represents undistributed accumulated earnings of the Group as on the
balance sheet date.

(f)

(h) Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative effective portion of gains or
losses arising on changes in fair value of designated portion of hedging instruments
entered into for cash flow hedges. Such gains or losses will be reclassified to statement
of profit and loss in the period in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs.
(i)

Foreign currency translation reserve
The exchange differences arising from the translation of financial statements of foreign
operations with functional currency other than Indian Rupee is recognised in other
comprehensive income and is presented within equity in the foreign currency translation
reserve.

Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) re-investment reserve is created out of the profit of
eligible SEZ units in terms of the provisions of section 10AA(1)(ii) of the Income-tax
Act, 1961. The reserve will be utilised by the Group for acquiring new assets for the
purpose of its business as per the terms of section 10AA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961.

(e)

Investment revaluation reserve

Statutory reserve
Statutory reserves are created to adhere to requirements of applicable laws and will be
utilised in accordance with the said laws.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Rajesh Gopinathan
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
Chartered Accountants
CEO and
COO and Executive Director
Firm’s registration no:
Managing Director
101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Samir Seksaria
CFO

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Mumbai, April 11, 2022
Consolidated Financial Statements | 249

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Year ended
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING
ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for
doubtful trade receivables and advances (net)
Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 20)
Tax expense
Net gain on lease modification
Net loss on sub-lease
Unrealised foreign exchange gain
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Net gain on disposal / fair valuation of investments
Interest income
Dividend income
Finance costs
Operating profit before working capital changes
Net change in
Inventories
Trade receivables
Billed
Unbilled
Loans and other financial assets
Other assets

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

38,449

32,562

4,604
135

4,065
201

13,238
(7)
9
(120)
(23)
(198)
(2,663)
(4)
784
54,204

1,218
11,198
(100)
(21)
(13)
(204)
(2,504)
(8)
637
47,031

(12)

(3)

(4,210)
(934)
(116)
807

1,260
(201)
(17)
(2,805)

Trade payables
Unearned and deferred revenue
Other financial liabilities
Other liabilities and provisions
Cash generated from operations
Taxes paid (net of refunds)
Net cash generated from operating activities

Year ended
March 31, 2022
186
(103)
1,153
460
51,435
(11,486)
39,949

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
(93)
1,091
122
1,509
47,894
(9,092)
38,802

(15,947)
(14,619)
(75,374)
(2,483)

(6,605)
(21,076)
(54,462)
(2,719)

(15)

(101)

(497)
11,950
19,498
73,852
3
31

(356)
4,767
18,018
51,630
37

2,700
4
(897)

2,730
8
(8,129)

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Bank deposits placed
Inter-corporate deposits placed
Purchase of investments#
Payment for purchase of property, plant and
equipment
Payment including advances for acquiring right-ofuse assets
Payment for purchase of intangible assets
Proceeds from bank deposits
Proceeds from inter-corporate deposits
Proceeds from disposal / redemption of investments#
Proceeds from sub-lease receivable
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and
equipment
Interest received
Dividend received
Net cash used in investing activities

Consolidated Financial Statements | 250

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Year ended
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021

(1,417)
(698)
(13,317)
(58)
(180)
162
(49)

(1,336)
(634)
(10,850)
(57)
(160)
160
(31)

(18,000)
(24)

(3,726)
(16,000)
-

(33,581)
5,471
6,858

(32,634)
(1,961)
8,646

159

173

12,488

6,858

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of lease liabilities
Interest paid
Dividend paid
Dividend paid to non-controlling interests
Transfer of funds to buy-back escrow account
Transfer of funds from buy-back escrow account
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares (Refer note
8(m))
Tax on buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 8(m))
Buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 8(m))
Advance towards purchase of non-controlling
interests
Net cash used in financing activities
Net change in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the
year
Exchange difference on translation of foreign
currency cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Year ended
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021

2,211
10,277
-*
-*
-*
12,488

5,266
1,586
-*
1
5
6,858

Components of cash and cash equivalents
Balances with banks
In current accounts
In deposit accounts
Cheques on hand
Cash on hand
Remittances in transit

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Purchase of investments include `17 crore and `172 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and proceeds from disposal / redemption of
investments include `87 crore and `104 crore for the years ended March 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively, held by trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

#

NOTES FORMING PART OF consolidated FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Rajesh Gopinathan
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
Chartered Accountants
CEO and
COO and Executive Director
Firm’s registration no:
Managing Director
101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Samir Seksaria
CFO

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Consolidated Financial Statements | 251

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
1)

Corporate information
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries
(collectively together with employee welfare trusts referred to as “the
Group”) provide IT services, consulting and business solutions and have been
partnering with many of the world’s largest businesses in their transformation
journeys. The Group offers a consulting-led, cognitive powered, integrated
portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions. This is
delivered through its unique Location-Independent Agile delivery model
recognised as a benchmark of excellence in software development.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in
India. The address of its corporate office is TCS House, Raveline Street, Fort,
Mumbai - 400001. As at March 31, 2022, Tata Sons Private Limited, the
holding company owned 72.27% of the Company’s equity share capital.
The Board of Directors approved the consolidated financial statements for the
year ended March 31, 2022 and authorised for issue on April 11, 2022.

2)

Statement of compliance
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with the Indian Accounting Standards (referred to as “Ind AS”) prescribed
under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as amended from time to time.

3)

Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on historical cost
basis except for certain financial instruments and defined benefit plans which
are measured at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting
period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration
given in exchange for goods and services. Fair value is the price that would be

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. All assets and liabilities
have been classified as current and non-current as per the Group’s normal
operating cycle. Based on the nature of services rendered to customers and
time elapsed between deployment of resources and the realisation in cash and
cash equivalents of the consideration for such services rendered, the Group
has considered an operating cycle of 12 months.
The statement of cash flows have been prepared under indirect method,
whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-cash
nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts
or payments and items of income or expense associated with investing or
financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, investing and financing
activities of the Group are segregated. The Group considers all highly liquid
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value to be cash equivalents.
The functional currency of the Company and its Indian subsidiaries is the
Indian Rupee (`). The functional currency of foreign subsidiaries is the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at exchange rates prevailing
on the date of the transaction. Foreign currency denominated monetary
assets and liabilities are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing on the
balance sheet dates and exchange gains and losses arising on settlement and
restatement are recognised in the statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary
assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in foreign
currencies are not retranslated.
The significant accounting policies used in preparation of the consolidated
financial statements have been discussed in the respective notes.
Consolidated Financial Statements | 252

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
4)

Basis of consolidation

reserve in the statement of changes in equity. When a foreign operation is
disposed off in its entirety or partially such that control, significant influence or
joint control is lost, the cumulative amount of exchange differences related to
that foreign operation recognised in OCI is reclassified to statement of profit
and loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.

The Company consolidates all entities which are controlled by it.
The Company establishes control when; it has power over the entity, is
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the
entity and has the ability to affect the entity’s returns by using its power over
relevant activities of the entity.

5)

Use of estimates and judgements

The results of subsidiaries acquired, or sold, during the year are consolidated
from the effective date of acquisition and up to the effective date of disposal,
as appropriate.

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with the
recognition and measurement principles of Ind AS requires management to
make estimates and judgements that affect the reported balances of assets
and liabilities, disclosures of contingent liabilities as at the date of consolidated
financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses for
the periods presented.

The financial statements of the Group companies are consolidated on a
line-by-line basis and all inter-company transactions, balances, income and
expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.

Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the
estimates are revised and future periods are affected.

Changes in the Company’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss
of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amount of
the Company’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to
reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference
between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and
the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in
equity and attributed to shareholders of the Company.

The Group uses the following critical accounting estimates in preparation of its
consolidated financial statements:

Entities controlled by the Company are consolidated from the date control
commences until the date control ceases.

Assets and liabilities of entities with functional currency other than the
functional currency of the Company have been translated using exchange
rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Statement of profit and loss of
such entities has been translated using weighted average exchange rates.
Translation adjustments have been reported as foreign currency translation
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

(a) Revenue recognition
Revenue for fixed-price contracts is recognised using
percentage-of-completion method. The Group uses judgement to
estimate the future cost-to-completion of the contracts which is used to
determine degree of completion of the performance obligation.
(b) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
The Group reviews the useful life of property, plant and equipment at the
end of each reporting period. This reassessment may result in change in
depreciation expense in future periods.
Consolidated Financial Statements | 253

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(c) Impairment of goodwill
The Group estimates the value-in-use of the cash generating units (CGUs)
based on the future cash flows after considering current economic conditions
and trends, estimated future operating results and growth rate and anticipated
future economic and regulatory conditions. The estimated cash flows are
developed using internal forecasts. The discount rates used for the CGUs
represent the weighted average cost of capital based on the historical market
returns of comparable companies.
(d) Fair value measurement of financial instruments
When the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in
the balance sheet cannot be measured based on quoted prices in active
markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the
Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs to these models are taken from
observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree
of judgement is required in establishing fair values. Judgements include
considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes
in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of
financial instruments.
(e) Provision for income tax and deferred tax assets
The Group uses estimates and judgements based on the relevant rulings in
the areas of allocation of revenue, costs, allowances and disallowances which is
exercised while determining the provision for income tax. A deferred tax asset
is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be
available against which the deductible temporary differences and tax losses
can be utilised. Accordingly, the Group exercises its judgement to reassess the
carrying amount of deferred tax assets at the end of each reporting period.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

(f) Provisions and contingent liabilities
The Group estimates the provisions that have present obligations as a result
of past events and it is probable that outflow of resources will be required
to settle the obligations. These provisions are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period and are adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
The Group uses significant judgements to assess contingent liabilities.
Contingent liabilities are recognised when there is a possible obligation
arising from past events, the existence of which will be confirmed only by
the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events
not wholly within the control of the Group or a present obligation that arises
from past events where it is either not probable that an outflow of resources
will be required to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount
cannot be made. Contingent assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the
consolidated financial statements.
(g) Employee benefits
The accounting of employee benefit plans in the nature of defined benefit
requires the Group to use assumptions. These assumptions have been
explained under employee benefits note.
(h) Leases
The Group evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to be a lease as per the
requirements of Ind AS 116. Identification of a lease requires significant
judgement. The Group uses significant judgement in assessing the lease term
(including anticipated renewals) and the applicable discount rate.
The Group determines the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a
lease, together with both periods covered by an option to extend the lease if
Consolidated Financial Statements | 254

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and periods covered
by an option to terminate the lease if the Group is reasonably certain not to
exercise that option. In assessing whether the Group is reasonably certain to
exercise an option to extend a lease, or not to exercise an option to terminate
a lease, it considers all relevant facts and circumstances that create an
economic incentive for the Group to exercise the option to extend the lease,
or not to exercise the option to terminate the lease. The Group revises the
lease term if there is a change in the non-cancellable period of a lease.
The discount rate is generally based on the incremental borrowing rate
specific to the lease being evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with similar
characteristics.
(i)

Impact of COVID-19 (pandemic)
The Group has taken into account all the possible impacts of COVID-19
in preparation of these consolidated financial statements, including but
not limited to its assessment of, liquidity and going concern assumption,
recoverable values of its financial and non-financial assets, impact on revenue
recognition owing to changes in cost budgets of fixed price contracts,
impact on leases and impact on effectiveness of its hedges. The Group has
carried out this assessment based on available internal and external sources
of information upto the date of approval of these consolidated financial
statements and believes that the impact of COVID-19 is not material to
these consolidated financial statements and expects to recover the carrying
amount of its assets. The impact of COVID-19 on the consolidated financial
statements may differ from that estimated as at the date of approval of
these consolidated financial statements owing to the nature and duration of
COVID-19.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

6)

Recent pronouncements
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments
to the existing standards under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
Rules as issued from time to time. On March 23, 2022, MCA amended the
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2022, applicable
from April 1, 2022, as below:
Ind AS 103 – Reference to Conceptual Framework
The amendments specify that to qualify for recognition as part of applying
the acquisition method, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
must meet the definitions of assets and liabilities in the Conceptual Framework
for Financial Reporting under Indian Accounting Standards (Conceptual
Framework) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India at the
acquisition date. These changes do not significantly change the requirements
of Ind AS 103. The Group does not expect the amendment to have any
significant impact in its financial statements.
Ind AS 16 – Proceeds before intended use
The amendments mainly prohibit an entity from deducting from the cost of
property, plant and equipment amounts received from selling items produced
while the company is preparing the asset for its intended use. Instead, an
entity will recognise such sales proceeds and related cost in profit or loss. The
Group does not expect the amendments to have any impact in its recognition
of its property, plant and equipment in its financial statements.
Ind AS 37 – Onerous Contracts - Costs of Fulfilling a Contract
The amendments specify that the ‘cost of fulfilling’ a contract comprises
the ‘costs that relate directly to the contract’. Costs that relate directly to a
contract can either be incremental costs of fulfilling that contract (examples
Consolidated Financial Statements | 255

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
would be direct labour, materials) or an allocation of other costs that relate
directly to fulfilling contracts. The amendment is essentially a clarification and
the Group does not expect the amendment to have any significant impact in
its financial statements.

The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially measured either at
fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the
acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made
on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying
amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial
recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in
equity of subsidiaries.

Ind AS 109 – Annual Improvements to Ind AS (2021)
The amendment clarifies which fees an entity includes when it applies the
‘10 percent’ test of Ind AS 109 in assessing whether to derecognise a financial
liability. The Group does not expect the amendment to have any significant
impact in its financial statements.

Business combinations arising from transfers of interests in entities that
are under common control are accounted at historical cost. The difference
between any consideration given and the aggregate historical carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded in
shareholders’ equity.

Ind AS 116 – Annual Improvements to Ind AS (2021)
The amendments remove the illustration of the reimbursement of leasehold
improvements by the lessor in order to resolve any potential confusion
regarding the treatment of lease incentives that might arise because of how
lease incentives were described in that illustration. The Group does not expect
the amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statements.
7)

Business combinations
The Group accounts for its business combinations under acquisition method
of accounting. Acquisition related costs are recognised in the consolidated
statement of profit and loss as incurred. The acquiree’s identifiable assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the condition for recognition are
recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Purchase consideration paid in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired is
recognised as goodwill. Where the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities
exceed the cost of acquisition, after reassessing the fair values of the net
assets and contingent liabilities, the excess is recognised as capital reserve.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

8)

Financial assets, financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets and
liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly
attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities
(other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value measured on initial
recognition of financial asset or financial liability.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to
the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset
and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another
entity. The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the
Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired.
Consolidated Financial Statements | 256

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Cash and cash equivalents

Financial liabilities

The Group considers all highly liquid investments, which are readily convertible
into known amounts of cash that are subject to an insignificant risk of change
in value to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of balances
with banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and usage.

Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method.

Financial assets at amortised cost

An equity instrument is a contract that evidences residual interest in the assets
of the company after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued
by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue cost.

Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost if these
financial assets are held within a business whose objective is to hold these
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of
the financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income if these financial assets are held within a business whose objective is
achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows on specified dates that are
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding
and selling financial assets.
The Group has made an irrevocable election to present subsequent
changes in the fair value of equity investments not held for trading in other
comprehensive income.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss unless they
are measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive
income on initial recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable to the
acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
are immediately recognised in statement of profit and loss.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Equity instruments

Derivative accounting
•

Instruments in hedging relationship

		

The Group designates certain foreign exchange forward, currency
options and futures contracts as hedge instruments in respect of foreign
exchange risks. These hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.

		

The Group uses hedging instruments that are governed by the policies of
the Company and its subsidiaries which are approved by their respective
Board of Directors. The policies provide written principles on the use of
such financial derivatives consistent with the risk management strategy of
the Company and its subsidiaries.

		

The hedge instruments are designated and documented as hedges at
the inception of the contract. The Group determines the existence of an
economic relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item
based on the currency, amount and timing of their respective cash flows.
The effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce the risk associated
with the exposure being hedged is assessed and measured at inception
and on an ongoing basis. If the hedged future cash flows are no longer
Consolidated Financial Statements | 257

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
expected to occur, then the amounts that have been accumulated in
other equity are immediately reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in
the statement of profit and loss.
		

The effective portion of change in the fair value of the designated
hedging instrument is recognised in the other comprehensive income and
accumulated under the heading cash flow hedging reserve.

		

The Group separates the intrinsic value and time value of an option and
designates as hedging instruments only the change in intrinsic value
of the option. The change in fair value of the intrinsic value and time
value of an option is recognised in the other comprehensive income
and accounted as a separate component of equity. Such amounts are
reclassified into the statement of profit and loss when the related hedged
items affect profit and loss.

		

Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires
or is sold, terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any
gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated
in equity till that time remains and is recognised in statement of profit and
loss when the forecasted transaction ultimately affects profit and loss. Any
gain or loss is recognised immediately in the statement of profit and loss
when the hedge becomes ineffective.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

•
		

Instruments not in hedging relationship
The Group enters into contracts that are effective as hedges from an
economic perspective, but they do not qualify for hedge accounting. The
change in the fair value of such instrument is recognised in the statement
of profit and loss.

Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair value)
The Group assesses at each date of balance sheet whether a financial asset
or a group of financial assets is impaired. Ind AS 109 requires expected credit
losses to be measured through a loss allowance. The Group recognises lifetime
expected losses for all contract assets and / or all trade receivables that do not
constitute a financing transaction. In determining the allowances for doubtful
trade receivables, the Group has used a practical expedient by computing
the expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision
matrix. The provision matrix takes into account historical credit loss experience
and is adjusted for forward looking information. The expected credit loss
allowance is based on the ageing of the receivables that are due and allowance
rates used in the provision matrix. For all other financial assets, expected
credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the 12-months expected
credit losses or at an amount equal to the life time expected credit losses if
the credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly since initial
recognition.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 258

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Investments – Current

(a) Investments
Investments consist of the following:
Investments – Non-current

(` crore)
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

As at
March 31, 2021

1,874

4,904

Investments carried at fair value through
profit or loss
Mutual fund units (quoted)

Investments designated at fair value through
OCI

As at
March 31, 2022

Investments carried at fair value through OCI

Fully paid equity shares (unquoted)

Government bonds and securities (quoted)

25,667

23,670

Mozido LLC

76

73

Corporate bonds (quoted)

1,242

450

FCM LLC

57

55

Investments carried at amortised cost

Taj Air Limited

19

19

Certificate of deposits (quoted)

99

-

Philippine Dealing System Holdings Corporation

7

7

Corporate bonds (quoted)

10

-

(123)

(116)

Commercial papers (quoted)

381

136

187

165

Less: Impairment in value of investments
Investments carried at amortised cost
Government bonds and securities (quoted)
Corporate bonds (quoted)

Treasury bills (quoted)
-

10

223

213

Investments – Non-current includes `187 crore and `175 crore as at March 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively, pertains to trusts held for specified purposes.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

989

-

30,262

29,160

Investments – Current includes `100 crore and `166 crore as at March 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
Government bonds and securities includes bonds pledged with bank for credit facility
and with manager to the buy-back amounting to `3,560 crore and `1,650 crore as at
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 259

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows:

Aggregate value of quoted investments
Aggregate value of unquoted investments (net
of impairment)
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
Aggregate value of impairment of investments

As at
March 31, 2022
30,449
36

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021
29,335
38

30,455
123

29,356
116

Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost is as follows:

Government bonds and securities
Certificate of deposits
Corporate bonds
Commercial papers
Treasury bills

As at
March 31, 2022
192
99
10
381
990

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021
186
10
136
-

Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are as follows:
(` crore)
As at
In Numbers Currency Face value Equity instruments designated
As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
per share
at fair value through OCI
Fully paid equity shares
(unquoted)
1,00,00,000 USD
1 Mozido LLC
76
73
15 USD
5,00,000 FCM LLC
57
55
1,90,00,000
INR
10 Taj Air Limited
19
19
5,00,000 PHP
100 Philippine Dealing System
7
7
Holdings Corporation
Less: Impairment in value of
(123)
(116)
investments
36
38
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value through
OCI is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Balance at the beginning of the year

828

796

Net loss arising on revaluation of financial assets
carried at fair value

(4)

(2)

Net gain / (loss) arising on revaluation of
investments other than equities carried at fair
value through other comprehensive income

(516)

51

Deferred tax relating to net gain / (loss) arising
on revaluation of investments other than
equities carried at fair value through other
comprehensive income

180

(17)

Balance at the end of the year

488

828

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

(b) Trade receivables - Billed

Trade receivables - Billed (unsecured) consist of the following:
Trade receivables - Billed – Non-current
(` crore)

Trade receivables - Billed

1,013

787

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
- Billed

(868)

(732)

Considered good

145

55

Consolidated Financial Statements | 260

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2022
is as follows:

Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2021
is as follows:

(` crore)

Particulars

Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables –
considered good
Undisputed trade receivables –
which have significant increase in
credit risk
Undisputed trade receivables –
credit impaired
Disputed trade receivables –
considered good
Disputed trade receivables –
which have significant increase in
credit risk
Disputed trade receivables –
credit impaired
Less: Allowance for doubtful
trade receivables - Billed
Trade receivables - Unbilled

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Not
due

Outstanding for following periods from due date of
payment

Total

Less than
6 months

6 months
- 1 year

1-2
years

2-3
years

More than
3 years

-

-

12

123

247

615

997

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

16

16

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

12

123

247

631

1,013
(868)
145
55
200

(` crore)

Particulars

Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables –
considered good
Undisputed trade receivables –
which have significant increase
in credit risk
Undisputed trade receivables –
credit impaired
Disputed trade receivables –
considered good
Disputed trade receivables –
which have significant increase
in credit risk
Disputed trade receivables –
credit impaired
Less: Allowance for doubtful
trade receivables - Billed
Trade receivables - Unbilled

Not
due

Outstanding for following periods from due date of
payment

Total

Less than
6 months

6 months
- 1 year

1-2
years

2-3
years

More than
3 years

-

-

16

154

86

515

771

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

16

16

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

16

154

86

531

787
(732)
55
273
328

Consolidated Financial Statements | 261

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Trade receivables - Billed – Current
(` crore)

Trade receivables - Billed
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
- Billed
Considered good

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

34,253

30,248

(219)

(244)

34,034

30,004

Trade receivables - Billed

286

388

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
- Billed

(246)

(313)

40

75

34,074

30,079

Credit impaired

Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as
follows:
(` crore)
Particulars

Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables
– considered good
Undisputed trade receivables
– which have significant
increase in credit risk
Undisputed trade receivables
– credit impaired
Disputed trade receivables –
considered good
Disputed trade receivables
– which have significant
increase in credit risk
Disputed trade receivables –
credit impaired
Less: Allowance for doubtful
trade receivables - Billed
Trade receivables - Unbilled

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Not due

Outstanding for following periods from due date
of payment
Less than 6 months 1 - 2 2 - 3 More than
6 months
- 1 year
years years
3 years

Total

30,102

2,601

582

585

154

205

34,229

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2

3

7

81

25

152

270

-

-

-

-

-

24

24

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

9

-

7

16

30,104

2,604

589

675

179

388

34,539
(465)
34,074
7,736
41,810

Consolidated Financial Statements | 262

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2021 is as
follows:

(c) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:

(` crore)
Particulars

Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables
– considered good
Undisputed trade receivables
– which have significant
increase in credit risk
Undisputed trade receivables
– credit impaired
Disputed trade receivables –
considered good
Disputed trade receivables
– which have significant
increase in credit risk
Disputed trade receivables –
credit impaired
Less: Allowance for doubtful
trade receivables - Billed

Not
due

Outstanding for following periods from due date
of payment
Less than 6 months 1 - 2 2 - 3 More than
6 months - 1 year
years years
3 years

24,716
-

4,149
-

476
-

558
-

74
-

250
-

(` crore)

Total

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

In current accounts

2,211

5,266

In deposit accounts

10,277

1,586

Cheques on hand

-*

-*

Cash on hand

-*

1

Remittances in transit

-*

5

12,488

6,858

Balances with banks
30,223
-

-

5

97

63

88

128

381

-

5

-

-

15

5

25

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

	Balances with banks in current accounts include `32 crore and `13 crore as at
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, pertaining to trusts held for specified purposes.

-

-

-

-

-

7

7

(d)

24,716

4,159

573

621

177

390

30,636
(557)

Trade receivables - Unbilled

30,079
6,583
36,662

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Other balances with banks
Other balances with banks consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022
Earmarked balances with banks
Short-term bank deposits

As at
March 31, 2021

226

209

5,507

2,262

5,733

2,471

Earmarked balances with banks primarily relate to margin money for purchase of
investments, margin money for derivative contracts, unclaimed dividends and balance in
escrow account for buy-back of equity shares.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 263

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(e) Loans

(f) Other financial assets

Loans (unsecured) consist of the following:
Loans – Non-current

Other financial assets consist of the following:
Other financial assets – Non-current

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

303

27

Considered good
Inter-corporate deposits
Loans and advances to employees

8

2

311

29

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021
837
3
719
14
1,573

As at
March 31, 2022
178
388
648
176
1,390

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021
168
495
615
116
1,394

Other financial assets – Current

Loans – Current

Considered good
Inter-corporate deposits
Loans and advances to employees
Credit impaired
Loans and advances to employees
Less: Allowance on loans and advances to
employees

Security deposits
Earmarked balances with banks
Long-term bank deposits
Others

As at
March 31, 2022
825
183
1,232
13
2,253

As at
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021

6,074
371

11,229
243

23
(23)

17
(17)

6,445

11,472

Security deposits
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets
Interest receivable
Others

Interest receivable includes `34 crore and `40 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Inter-corporate deposits placed with financial institutions yield fixed interest rate.
Inter-corporate deposits include `978 crore and `952 crore as at March 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 264

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(g) Trade payables
Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:

(h) Other financial liabilities

(` crore)
Particulars

Not due

Trade payables
MSME*
Others
Disputed dues - MSME*
Disputed dues - Others

1,187
1,187

Outstanding for following periods from due date
of payment
Less than
1-2
2-3
More than
1 year
years
years
3 years
778
778

22
22

8
8

Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
Other financial liabilities – Non-current
(` crore)

Total

52
32
84

2,047
32
2,079
5,966
8,045

Accrued expenses

As at
March 31, 2022
Capital creditors

339

-

Others

233

280

572

280

Others include advance taxes paid of `226 crore and `226 crore as at March 31,
2022 and 2021, respectively, by the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited
(merged with the Company) which, on refund by tax authorities, is payable to the seller.
Other financial liabilities – Current

*MSME as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.

Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2021 is as follows:

(` crore)

(` crore)
Particulars

Not due

Trade payables
MSME*
Others
Disputed dues - MSME*
Disputed dues - Others

2
1,320
1,322

Outstanding for following periods from due date
of payment
Less than
1-2
2-3
More than
1 year
years
years
3 years
763
763

26
26

15
15

79
32
111

Accrued expenses

As at
March 31, 2021

Total
Accrued payroll

2
2,203
32
2,237
5,623
7,860

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

5,572

4,482

Unclaimed dividends

46

50

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities

128

92

Capital creditors

771

399

1,034

914

Liabilities towards customer contracts
Others

136

213

7,687

6,150

*MSME as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 265

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(i)

Financial instruments by category
The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2022 is as
follows:

Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Bank deposits
Earmarked balances with banks
Investments
Trade receivables
Billed
Unbilled
Loans
Other financial assets
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities

Fair value
Fair value
Derivative
Derivative
through through other instruments instruments
profit or comprehensive in hedging not in hedging
loss
income
relationship relationship

Amortised
cost

(` crore)
Total
carrying
value

1,874

26,945

-

-

12,488
6,739
409
1,666

12,488
6,739
409
30,485

1,874

26,945

124
124

264
264

34,219
7,791
6,756
1,840
71,908

34,219
7,791
6,756
2,228
1,01,115

-

-

22
22

106
106

8,045
7,818
8,131
23,994

8,045
7,818
8,259
24,122

Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `6,377 crore, with original maturity period
within 36 months.

The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2021 is as
follows:
Fair value
through
profit or
loss
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Bank deposits
Earmarked balances with banks
Investments
Trade receivables
Billed
Unbilled
Loans
Other financial assets
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities

Fair value
Derivative
Derivative
through other instruments instruments
comprehensive in hedging not in hedging
income
relationship relationship

Amortised
cost

(` crore)
Total
carrying
value

4,904

24,158

-

-

6,858
2,981
212
311

6,858
2,981
212
29,373

4,904

24,158

163
163

332
332

30,134
6,856
11,501
1,750
60,603

30,134
6,856
11,501
2,245
90,160

-

-

2
2

90
90

7,860
7,795
6,338
21,993

7,860
7,795
6,430
22,085

Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `11,256 crore, with original maturity period
within 36 months.
Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans and trade
payables as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, approximate the fair value due to their nature.
Carrying amounts of bank deposits, earmarked balances with banks, other financial
assets and other financial liabilities which are subsequently measured at amortised cost
also approximate the fair value due to their nature in each of the periods presented. Fair
value measurement of lease liabilities is not required. Fair value of investments carried
at amortised cost is `1,672 crore and `332 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 266

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(j)

Fair value hierarchy
The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are
used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable and
consists of the following three levels:
•

Level 1 - Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities.

•

Level 2 - Inputs are other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that
are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or
indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).

•

Level 3 - Inputs are not based on observable market data (unobservable
inputs). Fair values are determined in whole or in part using a valuation
model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from
observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are
they based on available market data.

Corporate bonds
Commercial papers
Treasury bills
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative
assets
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative
liabilities

(` crore)
Total
1,252
381
990
388

Level 1
1,252
381
990
-

Level 2
-

30,455

388

36

30,879

-

128

-

128

-

128

-

128

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

4,849

-

55

4,904

-

-

38

38

23,856

-

-

23,856
460

388

Level 3
-

(` crore)
As at March 31, 2021
Financial assets

The cost of unquoted investments included in Level 3 of fair value hierarchy
approximate their fair value because there is a wide range of possible fair value
measurements and the cost represents estimate of fair value within that range.

Mutual fund units

The following table summarises financial assets and liabilities measured at fair
value on a recurring basis and financial assets that are not measured at fair
value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosures are required):

Corporate bonds

460

-

-

Commercial papers

136

-

-

136

-

495

-

495

29,301

495

93

29,889

-

92

-

92

-

92

-

92

As at March 31, 2022
Financial assets
Mutual fund units
Equity shares
Government bonds and securities
Certificate of deposits
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Level 1
1,874
25,859
99

Level 2
-

Level 3
36
-

(` crore)
Total
1,874
36
25,859
99

Equity shares
Government bonds and securities

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative
assets
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative
liabilities

Consolidated Financial Statements | 267

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurement of financial assets is as follows:
(` crore)

The following are outstanding currency options contracts, which have been
designated as cash flow hedges:
Foreign currency

As at March 31, 2022
No. of
Notional
Fair value
contracts amount of
(` crore)
contracts
(In million)
63
1,635
44
41
338
55
53
382
25
30
202
(21)
25
137
(1)

As at March 31, 2021
No. of
Notional
Fair value
contracts amount of
(` crore)
contracts
(In million)
63
1,615
51
64
330
14
60
346
78
38
206
16
23
114
2

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

93

42

Additions during the year

-

52

Fair value of investments

-

4

Impairment in value of investments

(4)

(2)

Other adjustments during the year

(55)

-

Translation exchange difference

2

(3)

Balance at the end of the year

36

93

The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash
flow hedges is as follows:

The Group’s revenue is denominated in various foreign currencies. Given the
nature of the business, a large portion of the costs are denominated in Indian
Rupee. This exposes the Group to currency fluctuations.

(` crore)
Year ended
Year ended
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Intrinsic value Time value Intrinsic value Time value
56
(27)
45
(68)
(636)
525
(341)
530

Balance at the beginning of the year

US Dollar
Great Britain Pound
Euro
Australian Dollar
Canadian Dollar

(k) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity

The Board of Directors has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC)
to frame, implement and monitor the risk management plan of the Group
which inter-alia covers risks arising out of exposure to foreign currency
fluctuations. Under the guidance and framework provided by the RMC, the
Group uses various derivative instruments such as foreign exchange forward,
currency options and futures contracts in which the counter party is generally
a bank.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Balance at the beginning of the year
(Gain) / loss transferred to profit and loss on
occurrence of forecasted hedge transactions
Deferred tax on (gain) / loss transferred to
profit and loss on occurrence of forecasted
hedge transactions
Change in the fair value of effective portion
of cash flow hedges
Deferred tax on change in the fair value of
effective portion of cash flow hedges
Balance at the end of the year

139

(122)

73

(125)

599

(559)

355

(477)

(131)

130

(76)

113

27

(53)

56

(27)

Consolidated Financial Statements | 268

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
The Group has entered into derivative instruments not in hedging relationship by
way of foreign exchange forward, currency options and futures contracts. As at
March 31, 2022 and 2021, the notional amount of outstanding contracts aggregated
to `46,392 crore and `37,615 crore, respectively, and the respective fair value of
these contracts have a net gain of `158 crore and `242 crore.
Exchange gain of `645 crore and `490 crore on foreign exchange forward, currency
options and futures contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting have been
recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Net foreign exchange gain include gain of `111 crore and loss of `189 crore
transferred from cash flow hedging reserve for the years ended March 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively.
Net loss on derivative instruments of `26 crore recognised in cash flow hedging reserve
as at March 31, 2022, is expected to be transferred to the statement of profit and
loss by March 31, 2023. The maximum period over which the exposure to cash flow
variability has been hedged is through calendar year 2022.
Following table summarises approximate gain / (loss) on Group’s other comprehensive
income on account of appreciation / depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

10% Appreciation of the underlying foreign
currencies

(387)

(306)

10% Depreciation of the underlying foreign
currencies

2,034

1,906

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

(l)

Financial risk management
The Group is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which may adversely impact
the fair value of its financial instruments. The Group has a risk management
policy which covers risks associated with the financial assets and liabilities.
The risk management policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The focus
of the risk management committee is to assess the unpredictability of the
financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse effects on the financial
performance of the Group.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial
instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Such changes
in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in the foreign
currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market
changes. The Group’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of
foreign currency exchange rate risk.
•

Foreign currency exchange rate risk

		

The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential
impact on the consolidated statement of profit and loss and other
comprehensive income and equity, where any transaction references
more than one currency or where assets / liabilities are denominated in
a currency other than the functional currency of the respective entities.
Considering the countries and economic environment in which the Group
operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in
exchange rates in those countries.

		

The Group, as per its risk management policy, uses derivative instruments
primarily to hedge foreign exchange. Further, any movement in the
functional currencies of the various operations of the Group against
Consolidated Financial Statements | 269

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
major foreign currencies may impact the Group’s revenue in international
business.
		

The Group evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations
by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It hedges a part of
these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk
management policies.

		

The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the
net foreign exchange rate exposure and a simultaneous parallel foreign
exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the respective
functional currencies of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its
subsidiaries.

		

The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures
for each of the subsidiaries and Tata Consultancy Services Limited as of
the date of balance sheet which could affect the statement of profit and
loss and other comprehensive income and equity. Further the exposure
as indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative contracts
entered into by the Group as disclosed in note 8(k).

		

The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign
currency exposure as at March 31, 2022:

Net financial assets
Net financial liabilities

		

		

USD
2,900
(8,589)

EUR
165
(437)

GBP

84
(1,290)

(` crore)
Others
1,234
(421)

10% appreciation / depreciation of the respective functional currency
of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries with respect
to various foreign currencies would result in increase / decrease in the
Group’s profit before taxes by approximately `635 crore for the year
ended March 31, 2022.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign
currency exposure as at March 31, 2021:

Net financial assets
Net financial liabilities

		

•
		

USD
3,194
(41)

EUR
155
(573)

GBP
101
(354)

(` crore)
Others
1,129
(411)

10% appreciation / depreciation of the respective functional currency
of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries with respect
to various foreign currencies would result in increase / decrease in the
Group’s profit before taxes by approximately `320 crore for the year
ended March 31, 2021.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing
investments. Hence, the Group is not significantly exposed to interest
rate risk.

Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay
or service debt according to the contractual terms or obligations. Credit risk
encompasses of both, the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration
of creditworthiness as well as concentration of risks. Credit risk is controlled
by analysing credit limits and creditworthiness of customers on a continuous
basis to whom the credit has been granted after obtaining necessary approvals
for credit.
Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk
principally consist of trade receivables, loans, investments, derivative financial
instruments, cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits and other financial
assets. Inter-corporate deposits of `6,377 crore are with a financial institution
having a high credit-rating assigned by credit-rating agencies. Bank deposits
Consolidated Financial Statements | 270

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
`190 crore respectively. The reconciliation of allowance for doubtful
trade receivables is as follows:

include an amount of `6,727 crore held with four Indian banks having high
credit rating which are individually in excess of 10% or more of the Group’s
total bank deposits as at March 31, 2022. None of the other financial
instruments of the Group result in material concentration of credit risk.
•
		

		

•
		

Exposure to credit risk

The Group’s exposure to customers is diversified and no single customer
contributes to more than 10% of outstanding trade receivables and
contract assets as at March 31, 2022 and 2021.

		

Geographic concentration of credit risk
Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of
allowances) and contract assets is as follows:

United States of America
India
United Kingdom

As at March 31, 2022 As at March 31, 2021
Gross%
Net%
Gross%
Net%
43.79
44.69
41.08
41.83
15.51
13.83
20.31
18.79
16.47
16.86
16.37
16.75

Geographical concentration of trade receivables and contract assets is
allocated based on the location of the customers.
		

Balance at the beginning of the year
Change during the year
Bad debts written off
Translation exchange difference
Balance at the end of the year

The carrying amount of financial assets and contract assets represents
the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk was
`1,05,498 crore and `94,201 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively, being the total of the carrying amount of balances with
banks, bank deposits, investments, trade receivables, loan, contract assets
and other financial assets.

The allowance for lifetime expected credit loss on trade receivables
for the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, was `123 crore and

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

		

(` crore)
Year ended
Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
1,289
1,137
123
190
(83)
(34)
4
(4)
1,333
1,289

Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group cannot meet its financial
obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management is to maintain
sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per
requirements. The Group consistently generated sufficient cash flows
from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities
as and when they fall due.
The tables below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of
significant financial liabilities as at:
March 31, 2022
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities

Due in
1st year
8,045
1,850
7,582
17,477
128
17,605

Due in Due in 3rd Due after
2nd year to 5th year 5th year
1,618
343
1,961
1,961

3,201
231
3,432
3,432

3,150
5
3,155
3,155

(` crore)
Total

8,045
9,819
8,161
26,025
128
26,153

Consolidated Financial Statements | 271

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
March 31, 2021
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities

Due in
1st year
7,860
1,742
6,058
15,660
92
15,752

Due in Due in 3rd Due after
2nd year to 5th year 5th year
1,601
50
1,651
1,651

3,325
230
3,555
3,555

3,509
3,509
3,509

The Company’s objective for capital management is to maximise shareholder
value, safeguard business continuity and support the growth of the Company.
The Company determines the capital requirement based on annual operating
plans and long-term and other strategic investment plans. The funding
requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated.
The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.

(` crore)
Total
7,860
10,177
6,338
24,375
92
24,467

The Board of Directors at its meeting held on January 12, 2022, approved a
proposal to buy-back upto 4,00,00,000 equity shares of the Company for an
aggregate amount not exceeding `18,000 crore, being 1.08% of the total paid
up equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share. The shareholders approved
the same on February 12, 2022, by way of a special resolution through postal
ballot. A Letter of Offer was made to all eligible shareholders. The Company
bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares out of the shares that were tendered
by eligible shareholders and extinguished the equity shares on
March 29, 2022. Capital redemption reserve was created to the extent of
share capital extinguished (`4 crore). The excess cost of buy-back of
`18,049 crore (including `49 crore towards transaction cost of buy-back)
over par value of shares and corresponding tax on buy-back of `4,192 crore
were offset from retained earnings.

(m) Equity instruments
The authorised, issued, subscribed and fully paid up share capital consist of the
following:

Authorised
460,05,00,000 equity shares of `1 each
(March 31, 2021: 460,05,00,000 equity shares
of `1 each)
105,02,50,000 preference shares of `1 each
(March 31, 2021: 105,02,50,000 preference
shares of `1 each)
Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid up
365,90,51,373 equity shares of `1 each
(March 31, 2021: 369,90,51,373 equity shares
of `1 each)

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

As at
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021

460

460

105

105

565

565

366

370

366

370

I.

Reconciliation of number of shares

Equity shares
Opening balance
Shares extinguished on buyback
Closing balance

As at March 31, 2022
Number of
Amount
shares
(` crore)

As at March 31, 2021
Number of
Amount
shares
(` crore)

369,90,51,373
(4,00,00,000)

370
(4)

375,23,84,706
(5,33,33,333)

375
(5)

365,90,51,373

366

369,90,51,373

370

Consolidated Financial Statements | 272

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
II.

Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of `1 each.
Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per share held and carry a right to
dividend. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the
approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except
in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders
are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution
of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
III. Shares held by Holding company, its Subsidiaries and Associates
(` crore)

IV. Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the
aggregate shares in the Company
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

264,43,17,117

266,91,25,829

72.27%

72.16%

Equity shares
Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding company
% of shareholding

V.

Equity shares movement during 5 years preceding March 31, 2022
•

Equity shares issued as bonus

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

264

267

7,220 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 7,220 equity
shares) are held by Tata Industries Limited*

-

-

•

10,14,172 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 10,23,685
equity shares) are held by Tata Investment Corporation
Limited*

-

-

		

46,798 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 46,798 equity
shares) are held by Tata Steel Limited*

-

-

The Company bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares for an aggregate
amount of `18,000 crore being 1.08% of the total paid up equity share
capital at `4,500 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were
extinguished on March 29, 2022.

766 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 766 equity shares)
are held by The Tata Power Company Limited*

-

-

		

264

267

The Company bought back 5,33,33,333 equity shares for an aggregate
amount of `16,000 crore being 1.42% of the total paid up equity share
capital at `3,000 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were
extinguished on January 6, 2021.

Equity shares

		

Holding company
264,43,17,117 equity shares (March 31, 2021:
266,91,25,829 equity shares) are held by Tata Sons
Private Limited
Subsidiaries and Associates of Holding company

*Equity shares having value less than `0.50 crore.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up bonus
shares by capitalisation of profits transferred from retained earnings
amounting to `86 crore and capital redemption reserve amounting to
`106 crore in the quarter ended June 30, 2018, pursuant to an ordinary
resolution passed after taking the consent of shareholders through
postal ballot.
Equity shares extinguished on buy-back

Consolidated Financial Statements | 273

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
		

		

The Company bought back 7,61,90,476 equity shares for an aggregate
amount of `16,000 crore being 1.99% of the total paid up equity share
capital at `2,100 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were
extinguished on September 26, 2018.
The Company bought back 5,61,40,350 equity shares for an aggregate
amount of `16,000 crore being 2.85% of the total paid up equity share
capital at `2,850 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were
extinguished on June 7, 2017.

VI. Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
Promoter name

Shares held by promoters
As at
March 31, 2022
No. of shares

% of total
shares

As at
March 31, 2021
No. of shares

% of total
shares

%
Change
during
the
year

Tata Sons Private Limited

264,43,17,117

72.27%

266,91,25,829

72.16%

0.11%

Total

264,43,17,117

72.27%

266,91,25,829

72.16%

0.11%

Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2021 is as follows:
Promoter name

Shares held by promoters
As at
March 31, 2021
No. of shares

% of total
shares

As at
March 31, 2020
No. of shares

% of total
shares

%
Change
during
the
year

Tata Sons Private Limited

266,91,25,829

72.16%

270,24,50,947

72.02%

0.14%

Total

266,91,25,829

72.16%

270,24,50,947

72.02%

0.14%

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

9)

Leases
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to
control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for
consideration.
Group as a lessee
The Group accounts for each lease component within the contract as a
lease separately from non-lease components of the contract and allocates
the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of
the relative standalone price of the lease component and the aggregate
standalone price of the non-lease components.
The Group recognises right-of-use asset representing its right to use the
underlying asset for the lease term at the lease commencement date. The
cost of the right-of-use asset measured at inception shall comprise of the
amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any lease
payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives
received, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to be
incurred by the lessee in dismantling and removing the underlying asset or
restoring the underlying asset or site on which it is located. The right-of-use
asset is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation,
accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted for any remeasurement of
the lease liability. The right-of-use asset is depreciated using the
straight-line method from the commencement date over the shorter of
lease term or useful life of right-of-use asset. The estimated useful lives of
right-of-use assets are determined on the same basis as those of property,
plant and equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment whenever
there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
The Group measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease
payments that are not paid at the commencement date of the lease. The lease
Consolidated Financial Statements | 274

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that
rate can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the
Group uses incremental borrowing rate. For leases with reasonably similar
characteristics, the Group, on a lease-by-lease basis, may adopt either the
incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease or the incremental borrowing
rate for the portfolio as a whole. The lease payments shall include fixed
payments, variable lease payments, residual value guarantees, exercise price
of a purchase option where the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that
option and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term
reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate the lease. The lease
liability is subsequently remeasured by increasing the carrying amount to
reflect interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect
the lease payments made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any
reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed
lease payments. The Group recognises the amount of the re-measurement of
lease liability due to modification as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset
and statement of profit and loss depending upon the nature of modification.
Where the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero and
there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, the
Group recognises any remaining amount of the re-measurement in statement
of profit and loss.
The Group has elected not to apply the requirements of Ind AS 116 Leases
to short-term leases of all assets that have a lease term of 12 months or less
and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The lease payments
associated with these leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor
At the inception of the lease the Group classifies each of its leases as either
an operating lease or a finance lease. The Group recognises lease payments
received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis over the
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

lease term. In case of a finance lease, finance income is recognised over the
lease term based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on
the lessor’s net investment in the lease. When the Group is an intermediate
lessor it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sub-lease
separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with reference
to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with reference to
the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the Group
applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an
operating lease.
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group
applies Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with customers to allocate the
consideration in the contract.
The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Group is as follows:
(` crore)
Additions
for the year ended
March 31, 2022
Leasehold land
Buildings
Leasehold improvement
Computer equipment

Net carrying
amount as at
March 31, 2022

100

774

1,357

6,586

-

23

4

81

Software licences

145

133

Vehicles

16

32

Office equipment

2

7

1,624

7,636

Consolidated Financial Statements | 275

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(` crore)
Additions
for the year ended
March 31, 2021
Leasehold land
Buildings

Net carrying
amount as at
March 31, 2021

-

682

1,226

6,758

Leasehold improvement

6

26

Computer equipment

102

101

Software licences

26

25

Vehicles

30

32

Office equipment

1

9

1,391

7,633

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021

Year ended
March 31, 2022
Buildings

The total cash outflow for leases is `2,228 crore and `2,312 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, including cash outflow for short term and low
value leases.
The Group has lease term extension options that are not reflected in the measurement
of lease liabilities. The present value of future cash outflows for such extension periods
is `773 crore and `708 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Lease contracts entered by the Group majorly pertains for buildings taken on lease
to conduct its business in the ordinary course. The Group does not have any lease
restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per the contract.

10) Non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities

Depreciation on right-of-use assets is as follows:

Leasehold land

The Group incurred `277 crore and `352 crore for the years ended March 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively, towards expenses relating to short-term leases and leases of
low-value assets.

9

8

1,465

1,453

Leasehold improvement

6

8

Computer equipment

23

12

Software licences

38

1

Vehicles

16

14

Office equipment

3

4

1,560

1,500

(a) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost comprising of purchase price
and any initial directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to its working
condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation (other than
freehold land) and impairment loss, if any.
Depreciation is provided for property, plant and equipment on a straight-line
basis so as to expense the cost less residual value over their estimated useful
lives based on a technical evaluation. The estimated useful lives and residual
values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any
change in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Interest on lease liabilities is `519 crore and `523 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 276

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:
Type of asset

Useful lives

Buildings

20 years

Leasehold improvements

Lease term

Plant and equipment

10 years

Computer equipment

4 years

Vehicles

4 years

Office equipment

2-5 years

Electrical installations

4-10 years

Furniture and fixtures

5 years

Property, plant and equipment with finite life are evaluated for recoverability
whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be
recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher
of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an
individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are
largely independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable
amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset
belongs.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than
its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to
its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of
profit and loss.

Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction
and installation are complete and the asset is ready for its intended use.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 277

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:

Cost as at April 1, 2021
Additions
Disposals
Translation exchange difference
Cost as at March 31, 2022
Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2021
Depreciation
Disposals
Translation exchange difference
Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 2022
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2022
Capital work-in-progress*
Total

Freehold
land
351
1
352
352

Buildings
7,777
51
(2)
3
7,829
(2,947)
(396)
2
(2)
(3,343)
4,486

Leasehold
improvements
2,502
108
(53)
12
2,569
(1,575)
(205)
52
(8)
(1,736)
833

Plant and
equipment
737
35
(1)
(1)
770
(302)
(76)
1
(377)
393

Computer
equipment
10,734
1,868
(515)
12,087
(7,531)
(1,547)
510
5
(8,563)
3,524

Vehicles
40
(1)
39
(33)
(3)
1
(35)
4

Office
equipment
2,574
187
(75)
2,686
(2,199)
(191)
75
(2,315)
371

Electrical
installations
2,058
41
(44)
7
2,062
(1,393)
(149)
43
(4)
(1,503)
559

Furniture
and fixtures
1,885
55
(42)
8
1,906
(1,568)
(122)
42
(6)
(1,654)
252

Office
equipment
2,509
137
(80)
8
2,574
(2,068)
(204)
79
(6)
(2,199)
375

Electrical
installations
2,039
46
(29)
2
2,058
(1,266)
(152)
26
(1)
(1,393)
665

Furniture
and fixtures
1,886
61
(63)
1
1,885
(1,489)
(137)
62
(4)
(1,568)
317

(` crore)
Total
28,658
2,345
(733)
30
30,300
(17,548)
(2,689)
725
(14)
(19,526)
10,774
1,205
11,979

*`2,345 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2022.

Cost as at April 1, 2020
Additions
Disposals
Translation exchange difference
Cost as at March 31, 2021
Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2020
Depreciation
Disposals
Translation exchange difference
Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 2021
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2021
Capital work-in-progress*
Total

Freehold
land
347
5
(1)
351
351

Buildings
7,719
71
(11)
(2)
7,777
(2,563)
(393)
8
1
(2,947)
4,830

Leasehold
improvements
2,427
142
(72)
5
2,502
(1,441)
(199)
68
(3)
(1,575)
927

Plant and
equipment
681
53
(1)
4
737
(228)
(72)
1
(3)
(302)
435

Computer
equipment
8,794
2,047
(180)
73
10,734
(6,414)
(1,246)
168
(39)
(7,531)
3,203

Vehicles
42
3
(5)
40
(34)
(4)
5
(33)
7

(` crore)
Total
26,444
2,565
(441)
90
28,658
(15,503)
(2,407)
417
(55)
(17,548)
11,110
926
12,036

*`2,565 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2021.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 278

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Capital work-in-progress
•

Capital work-in-progress ageing
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
Capital work-in-progress

Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Less than
1 year

Projects in progress

1-2
years

2-3
years

691

102

39

373

1,205

691

102

39

373

1,205

Amount in capital work-in-progress for a period of
Less than
1 year

Projects in progress

•

Total

More than
3 years

Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2021 is as follows:
Capital work-in-progress

(` crore)

1-2
years

2-3
years

Goodwill consists of the following:
(` crore)

(` crore)

Total

More than
3 years

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

486

62

41

337

926

Balance at the beginning of the year

1,798

1,710

486

62

41

337

926

Translation exchange difference

(11)

88

Balance at the end of the year

1,787

1,798

Project execution plans are modulated basis capacity requirement assessment
on an annual basis and all the projects are executed as per rolling annual plan.

(b) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the cost of acquired business as established at the date
of acquisition of the business in excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net
fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities less
accumulated impairment losses, if any. Goodwill is tested for impairment
annually or when events or circumstances indicate that the implied fair value
of goodwill is less than its carrying amount.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually,
or more frequently when there is indication for impairment. The financial
projections basis which the future cash flows have been estimated consider
the increase in economic uncertainties due to COVID-19, reassessment
of the discount rates, revisiting the growth rates factored while arriving at
terminal value and subjecting these variables to sensitivity analysis. If the
recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying amount, the impairment
loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated
to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of
the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.

Goodwill of `646 crore and `660 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively, has been allocated to the TCS business in France. The estimated
value-in-use of this CGU is based on the future cash flows using a 1.50%
annual growth rate for periods subsequent to the forecast period of 5 years
and discount rate of 9.30%. An analysis of the sensitivity of the computation
to a change in key parameters (operating margin, discount rates and long
term average growth rate), based on reasonable assumptions, did not identify
any probable scenario in which the recoverable amount of the CGU would
decrease below its carrying amount.
Consolidated Financial Statements | 279

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
The remaining amount of goodwill of `1,141 crore and `1,138 crore as
at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, (relating to different CGUs
individually immaterial) has been evaluated based on the cash flow forecasts of
the related CGUs and the recoverable amounts of these CGUs exceeded their
carrying amounts.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than
its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to
its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of
profit and loss.
Intangible assets consist of the following:
(` crore)

(c) Other intangible assets

Rights under
licensing
agreement and
software licences

Intangible assets purchased including acquired in business combination, are
measured at cost as at the date of acquisition, as applicable, less accumulated
amortisation and accumulated impairment, if any.

Customerrelated
intangibles

Total

Intangible assets consist of rights under licensing agreement and software
licences and customer-related intangibles.

Cost as at April 1, 2021

740

122

862

Additions

1,002

-

1,002

Following table summarises the nature of intangibles and their estimated
useful lives:

Disposals / Derecognised

(42)

-

(42)

Translation exchange difference

(3)

(1)

(4)

Type of asset

Useful lives

Cost as at March 31, 2022

1,697

121

1,818

Rights under licensing agreement and
software licences

Lower of licence period and 2-5 years

Accumulated amortisation as at
April 1, 2021

(265)

(117)

(382)

Customer-related intangibles

3 years

Amortisation

(349)

(6)

(355)
16

Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of its
economic useful life.
Intangible assets with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there
is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. If any
such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less
cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis
unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of
those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined
for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Disposals / Derecognised

16

-

Translation exchange difference

2

2

4

Accumulated amortisation as at
March 31, 2022

(596)

(121)

(717)

Net carrying amount as at
March 31, 2022

1,101

-

1,101

Consolidated Financial Statements | 280

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(` crore)
Rights under
licensing
agreement and
software licences

Customerrelated
intangibles

Total

(d) Other assets
Other assets consist of the following:
Other assets – Non-current
(` crore)

Cost as at April 1, 2020

448

120

568

Additions

356

-

356

Disposals / Derecognised

(64)

-

(64)

-

2

2

Cost as at March 31, 2021

740

122

862

Accumulated amortisation as at
April 1, 2020

(180)

(105)

(285)

Advances to related parties

23

33

Contract assets

171

250

Disposals / Derecognised

(149)

(9)

(158)

64

-

64

Prepaid expenses

Translation exchange difference

-

(3)

(3)

Accumulated amortisation as at
March 31, 2021

(265)

(117)

(382)

Net carrying amount as at
March 31, 2021

475

5

480

Translation exchange difference

Amortisation

The estimated amortisation for the years subsequent to March 31, 2022 is as
follows:
Year ending March 31,
2023
2024
2025
2026

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

(` crore)
Amortisation expense
463
403
214
22
1,101

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

78

66

Considered good
Capital advances

1,291

621

Contract fulfillment costs

150

228

Others

310

415

2,023

1,613

-*

2

Advances to related parties, considered good,
comprise:
Voltas Limited
Tata Realty and Infrastructure Ltd

-*

-*

Tata Projects Limited

23

30

Titan Engineering and Automation Limited

-*

-*

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 281

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Other assets – Current

Considered good
Advance to suppliers
Advance to related parties
Contract assets
Prepaid expenses
Prepaid rent
Contract fulfillment costs
Indirect taxes recoverable
Others
Considered doubtful
Advance to suppliers
Other advances
Less: Allowance on doubtful assets
Advance to related parties, considered good
comprise:
The Titan Company Limited
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited
Tata Sons Private Limited

As at
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021

202
8
4,248
2,994
18
1,074
1,310
297

157
10
3,830
4,651
28
796
1,491
273

2
4
(6)
10,151

3
1
(4)
11,236

1
7

2
1
7

Non-current – Others includes advance of `271 crore and `369 crore
towards acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at March 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively.
Contract fulfillment costs of `809 crore and `568 crore for the years
ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, have been amortised in
the consolidated statement of profit and loss. Refer note 12 for changes in
contract assets.
(e) Inventories
Inventories consists of a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components,
b) Work-in-progress, c) Stores and spare parts and d) Finished goods.
Inventories are carried at lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of
raw materials, sub-assemblies and components is determined on a weighted
average basis. Cost of finished goods produced or purchased by the Group
includes direct material and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing
overheads.
Inventories consist of the following:
(` crore)

Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components
Finished goods and work-in-progress

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

17

8

3

-*

20

8

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 282

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(f) Other liabilities

11) Other equity
Other equity consist of the following:

Other liabilities consist of the following:

(` crore)

Other liabilities – Current

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

75

75

436

431

4

5

440

436

Opening balance

27

27

Transfer to retained earnings

(27)

-

-

27

2,538

1,594

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022
Advance received from customers

As at
March 31, 2021

468

312

Indirect taxes payable and other statutory
liabilities

3,632

3,726

Tax liability on buy-back of equity shares*

4,192

-

100

30

8,392

4,068

Others

(g) Provisions

Opening balance

General reserve

Special Economic Zone re-investment
reserve

Provisions consist of the following:
Provisions – Current

Opening balance
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

1,249

1,211

Provision for foreseeable loss

131

150

Other provisions

31

33

1,411

1,394

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Capital redemption reserve
Transfer from retained earnings

*Refer note 8(m).

Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 20)

Capital reserve

Transfer from retained earnings

9,407

5,058

Transfer to retained earnings

(4,658)

(4,114)

7,287

2,538

Opening balance

79,586

78,810

Profit for the year

38,327

32,430

Retained earnings

Consolidated Financial Statements | 283

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Remeasurement of defined employee benefit
plans

280

(71)

Expenses for buy-back of equity shares1

(49)

(31)

Tax on buy-back of equity shares1

(4,192)

(3,726)

Buy-back of equity shares1

(17,996)

(15,995)

4,658

4,114

Transfer from Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve
Transfer from general reserve

27

-

1,00,641

95,531

As at
March 31, 2021

Opening balance

828

796

Change during the year (net)

(340)

32

488

828

Opening balance

29

(23)

Change during the year (net)

(55)

52

(26)

29

2,137

1,666

52

471

Investment revaluation reserve

Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note 8(k))

Foreign currency translation reserve

Less: Appropriations
Dividend on equity shares

13,317

Opening balance

10,850

4

5

Transfer to Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve

9,407

5,058

Transfer to / (from) statutory reserve

(245)

32

78,158

79,586

Opening balance

407

375

Transfer (to) / from retained earnings

(245)

32

162

407

Transfer to capital redemption reserve

1

Statutory reserve

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

Change during the year (net)

2,189

2,137

88,773

86,063

Refer note 8(m).

1

12) Revenue recognition
The Group earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting and
business solutions. The Group offers a consulting-led, cognitive powered,
integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions.
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or
services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration which the
Consolidated Financial Statements | 284

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Group expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
•

Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on
output basis measured by units delivered, efforts expended, number of
transactions processed, etc.

•

Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services
contracts where the Group is standing ready to provide services is
recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight lined over
the period of performance.

•

In respect of other fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised using
percentage-of-completion method (‘POC method’) of accounting
with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of
the performance obligation. The contract costs used in computing the
revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.

•

Revenue from the sale of distinct internally developed software and
manufactured systems and third party software is recognised upfront
at the point in time when the system / software is delivered to the
customer. In cases where implementation and / or customisation services
rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services
and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and
revenue is recognised over time on a POC method.

•

Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware is recognised at
the point in time when control is transferred to the customer.

•

The solutions offered by the Group may include supply of third-party
equipment or software. In such cases, revenue for supply of such third
party products are recorded at gross or net basis depending on whether
the Group is acting as the principal or as an agent of the customer. The

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Group recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration when
it is acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it is
acting as an agent.
Revenue is measured based on the transaction price, which is the
consideration, adjusted for volume discounts, service level credits,
performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in
the contract with the customer. Revenue also excludes taxes collected from
customers.
The Group’s contracts with customers could include promises to transfer
multiple products and services to a customer. The Group assesses the
products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance
obligations in the contract. Identification of distinct performance obligation
involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the
customer to benefit independently from such deliverables.
Judgement is also required to determine the transaction price for the
contract and to ascribe the transaction price to each distinct performance
obligation. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer
consideration or variable consideration with elements such as volume
discounts, service level credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and
incentives. The transaction price is also adjusted for the effects of the time
value of money if the contract includes a significant financing component. Any
consideration payable to the customer is adjusted to the transaction price,
unless it is a payment for a distinct product or service from the customer. The
estimated amount of variable consideration is adjusted in the transaction price
only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur and is reassessed
at the end of each reporting period. The Group allocates the elements of
variable considerations to all the performance obligations of the contract
Consolidated Financial Statements | 285

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct
performance obligations.
The Group exercises judgement in determining whether the performance
obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a period of time. The Group
considers indicators such as how customer consumes benefits as services
are rendered or who controls the asset as it is being created or existence
of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use
of such product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the
customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.
Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred except for certain
software licence costs which meet the criteria for capitalisation. Such costs are
amortised over the contractual period or useful life of licence, whichever is
less. The assessment of this criteria requires the application of judgement, in
particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be used
to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to
be recovered.

In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Group recognises an onerous contract
provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a
contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.
Contracts are subject to modification to account for changes in contract
specification and requirements. The Group reviews modification to contract
in conjunction with the original contract, basis which the transaction price
could be allocated to a new performance obligation, or transaction price of an
existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is
revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.
The Group disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature of
services, industry verticals and geography.
Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

1,90,289

1,62,508

Contract assets are recognised when there are excess of revenues earned
over billings on contracts. Contract assets are classified as unbilled receivables
(only act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive
cash, and only passage of time is required, as per contractual terms.

Sale of equipment and software licences

Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there
are billings in excess of revenues.

Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical and geography has been included
in segment information (Refer note 19).

The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance
based payments and / or milestone based progress payments. Invoices are
payable within contractually agreed credit period.

While disclosing the aggregate amount of transaction price yet to be
recognised as revenue towards unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance
obligations, along with the broad time band for the expected time to recognise
those revenues, the Group has applied the practical expedient in Ind AS 115.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consultancy services

1,465

1,669

1,91,754

1,64,177

Consolidated Financial Statements | 286

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Accordingly, the Group has not disclosed the aggregate transaction price
allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations which
pertain to contracts where revenue recognised corresponds to the value
transferred to customer typically involving time and material, outcome based
and event based contracts.

Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:

Balance at the beginning of the year

4,847

3,612

Unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations are subject to
variability due to several factors such as terminations, changes in scope of
contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates, economic factors (changes in
currency rates, tax laws etc). The aggregate value of transaction price allocated
to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is `1,13,868 crore
out of which 56.54% is expected to be recognised as revenue in the next year
and the balance thereafter. No consideration from contracts with customers is
excluded from the amount mentioned above.

Revenue recognised that was included in the
unearned and deferred revenue balance at the
beginning of the year

(3,251)

(3,010)

Increase due to invoicing during the year,
excluding amounts recognised as revenue
during the year

3,094

4,182

Translation exchange difference

55

63

Balance at the end of the year

4,745

4,847

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Changes in contract assets are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Balance at the beginning of the year

4,080

4,489

Invoices raised that were included in the
contract assets balance at the beginning of the
year

(3,150)

(3,496)

Increase due to revenue recognised during the
year, excluding amounts billed during the year

3,457

2,985

Translation exchange difference

32

102

Balance at the end of the year

4,419

4,080

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
(` crore)

Contracted price
Reductions towards variable consideration
components
Revenue recognised

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

1,94,777

1,66,917

(3,023)

(2,740)

1,91,754

1,64,177

The reduction towards variable consideration comprises of volume discounts, service
level credits, etc.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 287

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
13) Other income
Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.
Other income consist of the following:

Interest income
Dividend income
Net gain on diposal / fair valuation of
investments carried at fair value through profit
or loss
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and
equipment
Net gain on lease modification
Net loss on sub-lease
Net foreign exchange gain
Rent income
Other income
Interest income comprise:
Interest on bank balances and bank deposits
Interest on financial assets carried at amortised
cost
Interest on financial assets carried at fair value
through OCI
Other interest (including interest on tax
refunds)
Dividend income comprise:
Dividend from mutual fund units and other
investments
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Year ended
March 31, 2022
2,663
4
198

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
2,504
8
204

23

13

7
(9)
1,045
87
4,018

100
248
1
56
3,134

295
546

137
587

1,818

1,762

4

18

4

8

14) Employee benefits
Defined benefit plans
For defined benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using
the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out
at each balance sheet date. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and
losses, the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling and the return on plan
assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the balance sheet with
a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in
which they occur. Past service cost, both vested and unvested, is recognised
as an expense at the earlier of (a) when the plan amendment or curtailment
occurs; and (b) when the entity recognises related restructuring costs or
termination benefits.
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represents
the present value of the defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value
of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the
present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the
scheme.
The Group provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund
(Company managed fund) to its employees which are treated as defined
benefit plans.
Defined contribution plans
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when
employees have rendered services entitling them to such benefits.
The Group provides benefits such as superannuation, provident fund (other
than Company managed fund) and foreign defined contribution plans to its
employees which are treated as defined contribution plans.
Consolidated Financial Statements | 288

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Short-term employee benefits

Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:

All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering
the service are classified as short-term employee benefits. Benefits such
as salaries, wages etc. and the expected cost of ex-gratia are recognised
in the period in which the employee renders the related service. A liability
is recognised for the amount expected to be paid when there is a present
legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service
provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.

Employee benefit obligations – Non-current

Gratuity liability
Foreign defined benefit plans
Other employee benefit obligations

Compensated absences
Compensated absences which are expected to occur within twelve months
after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related
services are recognised as undiscounted liability at the balance sheet date.
Compensated absences which are not expected to occur within twelve months
after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related services
are recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the
defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
Employee benefit expenses consist of the following:

As at
March 31, 2022
13
490
174
677

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021
12
492
245
749

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

3,760

3,448

Employee benefit obligations – Current
(` crore)

Compensated absences
Other employee benefit obligations

50

50

3,810

3,498

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Salaries, incentives and allowances

96,263

83,045

Contributions to provident and other funds

8,450

6,401

Staff welfare expenses

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

2,841

2,368

1,07,554

91,814

Consolidated Financial Statements | 289

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Employee benefit plans consist of the following:
Gratuity and pension
In accordance with Indian law, Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries in India operate a scheme of gratuity which is a defined benefit plan. The gratuity
plan provides for a lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death while in employment or on termination of employment of an amount equivalent to
15 to 30 days’ salary payable for each completed year of service. Vesting occurs upon completion of five continuous years of service. The Company manages the plan
through a trust. Trustees administer contributions made to the trust. Certain overseas subsidiaries of the Company also provide for retirement benefit pension plans in
accordance with the local laws.
The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans and the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2022
Domestic
Foreign
Foreign
plans
plans
plans
Unfunded
Funded
Unfunded

Domestic
plans
Funded
Change in benefit obligations
Benefit obligations, beginning of
the year
Translation exchange difference
Plan assumed on insourcing of
employees
Plan participants’ contribution
Service cost
Interest cost
Remeasurement of the net defined
benefit liability
Past service cost / (credit)
Benefits paid
Shift of plan from unfunded to
funded position
Benefit obligations, end of the
year
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Total

Year ended March 31, 2021
Domestic
Foreign
Foreign
plans
plans
plans
Unfunded
Funded
Unfunded

Domestic
plans
Funded

Total

4,315

12

2,292

237

6,856

3,638

8

755

161

4,562

-

-

(17)
-

4
-

(13)
-

-

-

(21)
1,348

6
20

(15)
1,368

539
296
(188)

1

15
51
19
(34)

47
3
(9)

15
637
318
(230)

460
244
135

2
1
2

12
27
12
139

36
3
18

12
525
260
294

(489)
9

(1)
(9)

3
(35)
-

(13)
-

3
(538)
-

(162)
-

(1)
-

20
-

(7)
-

(150)
-

4,482

3

2,294

269

7,048

4,315

12

2,292

237

6,856

Consolidated Financial Statements | 290

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2022
Domestic
plans
Funded

Domestic
plans
Unfunded

Foreign
plans
Funded

Foreign
plans
Unfunded

Year ended March 31, 2021
Total

Domestic
plans
Funded

Domestic
plans
Unfunded

Foreign
plans
Funded

Foreign
plans
Unfunded

Total

Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets,
beginning of the year

4,706

-

2,073

-

6,779

3,643

-

629

-

4,272

Translation exchange difference

-

-

(21)

-

(21)

-

-

(17)

-

(17)

Plan assumed on insourcing of
employees

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,302

-

1,302

Interest income

335

-

16

-

351

269

-

9

-

278

Employers’ contributions

980

-

48

-

1,028

837

-

25

-

862

-

-

15

-

15

-

-

12

-

12

Plan participants’ contribution
Benefits paid

(489)

-

(35)

-

(524)

(162)

-

20

-

(142)

Remeasurement - return on plan
assets excluding amount included
in interest income

(5)

-

36

-

31

119

-

93

-

212

Fair value of plan assets, end of
the year

5,527

-

2,132

-

7,659

4,706

-

2,073

-

6,779

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 291

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(` crore)
Domestic
plans
Funded
Funded status
Deficit of plan assets over
obligations
Surplus of plan assets over
obligations

As at March 31, 2022
Domestic
Foreign
Foreign
plans
plans
plans
Unfunded
Funded
Unfunded

Total

As at March 31, 2021
Domestic
Foreign
Foreign
plans
plans
plans
Unfunded
Funded
Unfunded

Domestic
plans
Funded

Total

(10)

(3)

(221)

(269)

(503)

-

(12)

(255)

(237)

(504)

1,055

-

59

-

1,114

391

-

36

-

427

1,045

(3)

(162)

(269)

611

391

(12)

(219)

(237)

(77)

(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
Domestic
plans
Funded

Domestic
plans
Unfunded

Foreign
plans
Funded

As at March 31, 2021

Foreign
plans
Unfunded

Total

Domestic
plans
Funded

Domestic
plans
Unfunded

Foreign
plans
Funded

Foreign
plans
Unfunded

Total

Category of assets
Corporate bonds

1,697

-

369

-

2,066

1,408

-

805

-

Equity instruments

66

-

543

-

609

29

-

-

-

29

2,625

-

195

-

2,820

2,257

-

-

-

2,257
1,341

Government bonds and securities

2,213

Insurer managed funds

983

-

503

-

1,486

910

-

431

-

Bank balances

10

-

24

-

34

2

-

3

-

5

Others

146

-

498

-

644

100

-

834

-

934

5,527

-

2,132

-

7,659

4,706

-

2,073

-

6,779

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 292

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Net periodic gratuity / pension cost, included in employee cost consists of the following components:
(` crore)

Service cost
Net interest on net defined benefit
(asset) / liability
Past service cost / (credit)
Net periodic gratuity / pension
cost
Actual return on plan assets

Domestic
plans
Funded
539
(39)

Year ended March 31, 2022
Domestic
Foreign
Foreign
plans
plans
plans
Unfunded
Funded
Unfunded
51
47
3
3

Total

637
(33)

Domestic
plans
Funded
460
(25)

Year ended March 31, 2021
Domestic
Foreign
Foreign
plans
plans
plans
Unfunded
Funded
Unfunded
2
27
36
1
3
3

Total

525
(18)

500

-

3
57

50

3
607

435

3

30

39

507

330

-

52

-

382

388

-

102

-

490

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2022
Domestic plans
Funded

Domestic plans
Unfunded

Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in demographic
assumptions

(20)

Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in experience
adjustments
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability
Remeasurement - return on plan assets excluding amount included in
interest income

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Foreign plans
Funded

Foreign plans
Unfunded

Total

-

(13)

(2)

(35)

(166)

-

(55)

(25)

(246)

(2)

1

34

18

51

(188)

1

(34)

(9)

(230)

5

-

(36)

-

(31)

(183)

1

(70)

(9)

(261)

Consolidated Financial Statements | 293

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(` crore)

Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in demographic
assumptions
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in experience
adjustments
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability
Remeasurement - return on plan assets excluding amount included in
interest income

Domestic plans
Funded
24

Year ended March 31, 2021
Domestic plans
Foreign plans
Foreign plans
Unfunded
Funded
Unfunded
1
(2)

Total
23

(32)
143

2

118
20

19
1

105
166

135
(119)

2
-

139
(93)

18
-

294
(212)

16

2

46

18

82

The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out below:
Year ended March 31, 2022
Domestic plans

Year ended March 31, 2021

Foreign plans

Domestic plans

Foreign plans

Discount rate

4.50%-7.25%

0.77%-8.30%

4.25%-7.00%

0.40%-7.55%

Rate of increase in compensation levels of covered employees

4.00%-6.00%

1.50%-7.00%

4.00%-6.00%

1.25%-7.00%

Rate of return on plan assets

4.50%-7.25%

0.77%-8.30%

4.25%-7.00%

0.40%-7.55%

2-16 years

3-31 years

3-18 years

3-65 years

Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations

Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.
The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions as are used to measure Group’s defined benefit plan obligations as at March 31, 2022. The Group
is expected to contribute `57 crore to defined benefit plan obligations funds for the year ending March 31, 2023 comprising domestic component of
`6 crore and foreign component of `51 crore.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 294

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
The significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined
benefit obligations are discount rate and expected salary increase. The
sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible
changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting
period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit
obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
(` crore)

Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that
applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the
balance sheet.
Each year an Asset-Liability matching study is performed in which the
consequences of the strategic investment policies are analysed in terms of risk
and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within
this study.
The defined benefit obligations shall mature after year ended March 31, 2022
as follows:

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Increase of 0.50%

(372)

(378)

Year ending March 31,

Decrease of 0.50%

422

421

2023

533

2024

449

2025

478

2026

463

2027

478

If the expected salary growth increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined
benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
(` crore)

(` crore)
Defined benefit obligations

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Increase of 0.50%

200

276

Provident fund

Decrease of 0.50%

(188)

(260)

In accordance with Indian law, all eligible employees of Tata Consultancy
Services Limited in India are entitled to receive benefits under the provident
fund plan in which both the employee and employer (at a determined
rate) contribute monthly to a trust set up by the Company to manage the
investments and distribute the amounts entitled to employees. This plan is
a defined benefit plan as the Company is obligated to provide its members a
rate of return which should, at the minimum, meet the interest rate declared
by Government administered provident fund. A part of the Company’s

The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the
actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is unlikely that the
change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the
assumptions may be correlated.
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of
the defined benefit obligations has been calculated using the Projected Unit
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

2028-2032

2,477

Consolidated Financial Statements | 295

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
contribution is transferred to Government administered pension fund. The
contributions made by the Company and the shortfall of interest, if any, are
recognised as an expense in profit and loss under employee benefit expenses.
In accordance with an actuarial valuation of provident fund liabilities on
the basis of guidance issued by Actuarial Society of India and based on the
assumptions as mentioned below, there is no deficiency in the interest cost as
the present value of the expected future earnings of the fund is greater than
the expected amount to be credited to the individual members based on the
expected guaranteed rate of interest of Government administered provident
fund.
All eligible employees of Indian subsidiaries of the Company are entitled to
receive benefits under the provident fund plan in which both the employee
and employer (at a determined rate) contribute monthly to the Government
administered provident fund plan. A part of the company’s contribution is
transferred to Government administered pension fund. This plan is a defined
contribution plan as the obligation of the employer is limited to the monthly
contributions made to the fund. The contributions made to the fund are
recognised as an expense in profit and loss under employee benefit expenses.
The details of fund and plan assets are given below:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Fair value of plan assets

22,814

20,003

Present value of defined benefit obligations

(22,814)

(20,003)

-

-

Net excess / (shortfall)

The plan assets have been primarily invested in Government securities and
corporate bonds.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligations of
interest guarantee under the deterministic approach are as follows:
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Discount rate

7.00%

6.50%

Average remaining tenure of investment
portfolio

8 years

8 years

Guaranteed rate of return

8.10%

8.50%

The Group expensed `1,383 crore and `1,085 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards provident fund.
Superannuation
All eligible employees on Indian payroll are entitled to benefits under
Superannuation, a defined contribution plan. The Group makes monthly
contributions until retirement or resignation of the employee. The Group
recognises such contributions as an expense when incurred. The Group has
no further obligation beyond its monthly contribution.
The Group expensed `383 crore and `366 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards Employees’ Superannuation
Fund.
Foreign defined contribution plan
The Group expensed `1,796 crore and `1,458 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards foreign defined contribution
plans.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 296

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
15) Cost recognition

(b) Other expenses
Other expenses consist of the following:

Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and have been classified
according to their nature.

(` crore)

The costs of the Group are broadly categorised in employee benefit expenses,
cost of equipment and software licences, depreciation and amortisation
expense and other expenses. Other expenses mainly include fees to external
consultants, facility expenses, travel expenses, communication expenses,
bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade receivables
and advances (net) and other expenses. Other expenses are aggregation of
costs which are individually not material such as commission and brokerage,
recruitment and training, entertainment, etc.

(` crore)

Equipment and software licences purchased

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Fees to external consultants

17,409

13,214

Facility expenses

2,139

2,131

Travel expenses

1,589

1,081

Communication expenses

2,050

1,896

135

201

Bad debts and advances written off, allowance
for doubtful trade receivables and advances (net)
Other expenses

(a) Cost of equipment and software licences
Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:

Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components
consumed

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

29

14

1,137

1,447

1,166

1,461

Opening stock

-*

1

Less: Closing stock

3

-*

Finished goods and work-in-progress

(3)

1

1,163

1,462

6,658

5,832

29,980

24,355

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Interest on lease liabilities

519

523

Interest on tax matters

218

96

Other interest costs

47

18

784

637

16) Finance costs
Finance costs consist of the following:
(` crore)

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 297

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
17) Income taxes
Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in
the deferred tax asset or liability during the year. Current and deferred taxes
are recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to
items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity,
in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Current income taxes
The current income tax expense includes income taxes payable by the
Company and its subsidiaries in India and overseas. The current tax payable
by the Company and its subsidiaries in India is Indian income tax payable
on worldwide income after taking credit for tax relief available for export
operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
Current income tax payable by overseas branches of the Company is
computed in accordance with the tax laws applicable in the jurisdiction in
which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available
for set off against the Indian income tax liability of the Company’s worldwide
income.
The current income tax expense for overseas subsidiaries has been computed
based on the tax laws applicable to each subsidiary in the respective
jurisdiction in which it operates.
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the
balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and income tax provision
arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit
intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.
Deferred income taxes
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred
income tax assets and liabilities are recognised for deductible and taxable
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and
their carrying amount, except when the deferred income tax arises from the
initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not
a business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or
loss at the time of the transaction.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary
differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses
can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred
income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary
differences except in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with
investments in subsidiaries where timing of the reversal of the temporary
difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted tax
rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary
differences are expected to be received or settled.
For operations carried out in SEZs, deferred tax assets or liabilities, if any, have
been established for the tax consequences of those temporary differences
between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases that reverse after the tax holiday ends.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes
levied by the same taxation authority and the relevant entity intends to settle
its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Consolidated Financial Statements | 298

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance
with the tax laws in India, to the extent it would be available for set off against
future current income tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred
tax asset in the balance sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it
is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will be
realised.

The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at Indian statutory income
tax rate to income tax expense reported in consolidated statement of profit
and loss is as follows:

The income tax expense consists of the following:

Profit before tax
Indian statutory income tax rate
Expected income tax expense
Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile
expected income tax expense to reported
income tax expense
Tax holidays
Income exempt from tax
Undistributed earnings in branches and
subsidiaries
Tax on income at different rates
Tax pertaining to prior years
Others (net)
Total income tax expense

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

14,333

11,737

Current tax
Current tax expense for current year
Current tax benefit pertaining to prior years

(679)

(102)

13,654

11,635

(333)

(359)

Deferred tax
Deferred tax benefit for current year
Deferred tax benefit pertaining to prior years

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

(83)

(78)

(416)

(437)

13,238

11,198

Year ended
March 31, 2022
51,687
34.94%
18,062

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
43,760
34.94%
15,292

(4,792)
(396)
(47)

(4,708)
(325)
(13)

980
(762)
193
13,238

471
(180)
661
11,198

Tata Consultancy Services Limited benefits from the tax holiday available for
units set up under the Special Economic Zone Act, 2005. These tax holidays
are available for a period of fifteen years from the date of commencement of
operations. Under the SEZ scheme, the unit which begins providing services
on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible for deductions of 100% of profits
or gains derived from export of services for the first five years, 50% of such
profits or gains for a further period of five years and 50% of such profits
or gains for the balance period of five years subject to fulfilment of certain
conditions. From April 1, 2011, profits from units set up under SEZ scheme
are subject to Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT).
Consolidated Financial Statements | 299

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year
ended March 31, 2022 are as follows:
Opening Recognised
balance in profit and
loss

Deferred tax assets /
(liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and
equipment and intangible
assets
Provision for employee
benefits
Cash flow hedges
Receivables, financial
assets at amortised cost
MAT credit entitlement
Branch profit tax
Undistributed earnings of
subsidiaries
Unrealised gain on
securities carried at
fair value through
profit or loss / other
comprehensive income
Lease liabilities
Others

Recognised in
/ reclassified
from other
comprehensive
income

Adjustments /
utilisation

Exchange
difference

(` crore)
Closing
balance

Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
Property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets

131

-

(6)

434

897

94

58

(2)

(5)

1,042

(8)
424

42

16
-

-

(1)
5

7
471

1,710
(310)
(198)

233
(157)

-

(735)
-

-

975
(77)
(355)

(500)

-

180

-

-

(320)

261
579
3,164

(22)
95
416

254

(737)

2
26
21

241
700
3,118

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Net

105

434

1,062

20

1,042

7

-

7

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

471

-

471

MAT credit entitlement

975

-

975

-

77

(77)

Provision for employee benefits
-

Liabilities

539

Cash flow hedges
309

Assets

Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to

Branch profit tax
Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries

-

355

(355)

Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value
through profit or loss / other comprehensive
income

(320)

-

(320)

Lease liabilities

240

(1)

241

Others

734

34

700

3,708

590

3,118

Consolidated Financial Statements | 300

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year
ended March 31, 2021 are as follows:
Opening
balance

Deferred tax assets /
(liabilities) in relation to
Property, plant and
equipment and intangible
assets
Provision for employee
benefits
Cash flow hedges
Receivables, financial
assets at amortised cost
MAT credit entitlement
Branch profit tax
Undistributed earnings of
subsidiaries
Unrealised gain on
securities carried at
fair value through
profit or loss / other
comprehensive income
Lease liabilities
Others

145

Recognised
in profit and
loss

124

Recognised in Adjustments / Exchange
/ reclassified
Utilisation
difference
from other
comprehensive
income

-

40

-

(` crore)
Closing
balance

309

Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2021

168

8

77

(10)

897

7
388

35

(15)
-

-

1

(8)
424

1,074
(284)
(286)

39
(26)
88

-

597
-

-

1,710
(310)
(198)

(484)

1

(17)

-

-

(500)

345
490

(84)
92

-

-

(3)

261
579

2,049

437

(24)

714

(12)

3,164

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Liabilities

Net

Property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets

458

149

309

Provision for employee benefits

908

11

897

Cash flow hedges

(8)

-

(8)

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost
MAT credit entitlement

654

Assets

Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to

Branch profit tax
Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries

424

-

424

1,710

-

1,710

-

310

(310)

-

198

(198)

Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value
through profit or loss / other comprehensive
income

(500)

-

(500)

Lease liabilities

260

(1)

261

Others

679

100

579

3,931

767

3,164

Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, unabsorbed business losses expire 8 years
after the year in which they originate. In respect of certain foreign subsidiaries,
business losses can be carried forward indefinitely unless there is a substantial
change in the ownership.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets relate primarily to business losses and tax
credit entitlements which do not qualify for recognition as per the applicable
Consolidated Financial Statements | 301

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
accounting standards. These unexpired business losses will expire based on the
year of origination as follows:
(` crore)
March 31,

Unabsorbed business losses

2023

2

2024

7

2025

4

2026

2

2027

-

Thereafter

116
131

Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, Tata Consultancy Services Limited is liable
to pay Minimum Alternate Tax in the tax holiday period. MAT paid can be
carried forward for a period of 15 years and can be set off against the future
tax liabilities. MAT is recognised as a deferred tax asset only when the asset
can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit
associated with the asset will be realised.
Deferred tax liability on temporary differences of `6,177 crore as at
March 31, 2022, associated with investments in subsidiaries, has not been
recognised, as it is the intention of Tata Consultancy Services Limited to
reinvest the earnings of these subsidiaries for the foreseeable future.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Direct tax contingencies
The Company and its subsidiaries have ongoing disputes with income tax
authorities in India and in some of the other jurisdictions where they operate.
The disputes relate to tax treatment of certain expenses claimed as deduction,
computation or eligibility of tax incentives and allowances and characterisation
of fees for services received. The Company and its subsidiaries have
recognised contingent liability in respect of tax demands received from direct
tax authorities in India and other jurisdictions of `1,652 crore and `955 crore
as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. These demand orders are being
contested by the Company and its subsidiaries based on the management
evaluation and advise of tax consultants. In respect of tax contingencies of
`318 crore and `318 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, not
included above, the Company is entitled to an indemnification from the seller
of TCS e-Serve Limited.
The Group periodically receives notices and inquiries from income tax
authorities related to the Group’s operations in the jurisdictions it operates in.
The Group has evaluated these notices and inquiries and has concluded that
any consequent income tax claims or demands by the income tax authorities
will not succeed on ultimate resolution.
The number of years that are subject to tax assessments varies depending
on tax jurisdiction. The major tax jurisdictions of Tata Consultancy Services
Limited include India, United States of America and United Kingdom. In India,
tax filings from fiscal 2018 are generally subject to examination by the tax
authorities. In United States of America, the federal statute of limitation
applies to fiscals 2017 and earlier and applicable state statutes of limitation
vary by state. In United Kingdom, the statute of limitation generally applies to
fiscal 2018 and earlier.
Consolidated Financial Statements | 302

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
18) Earnings per share

revenue of the segment or manpower efforts. All other expenses which are
not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as unallocable
expenses.

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit or loss attributable
to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of
equity shares outstanding during the period. The Company did not have any
potentially dilutive securities in any of the years presented.

Profit for the year attributable to shareholders
of the Company (` crore)
Weighted average number of equity shares
Basic and diluted earnings per share (`)
Face value per equity share (`)

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

38,327

32,430

369,88,32,195

374,01,10,733

103.62

86.71

1

1

19) Segment information
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which
discrete financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the
chief operating decision maker, in deciding how to allocate resources and
assessing performance. The Group’s chief operating decision maker is the
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director.
The Group has identified business segments (‘industry vertical’) as reportable
segments. The business segments comprise: 1) Banking, Financial Services
and Insurance, 2) Manufacturing, 3) Retail and Consumer Business,
4) Communication, Media and Technology, 5) Life Sciences and Healthcare
and 6) Others such as Energy, Resources and Utilities, s-Governance and
Products.
Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported under
each reportable segment. Expenses which are not directly identifiable to
each reporting segment have been allocated on the basis of associated
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

The assets and liabilities of the Group are used interchangeably amongst
segments. Allocation of such assets and liabilities is not practicable and any
forced allocation would not result in any meaningful segregation. Hence assets
and liabilities have not been identified to any of the reportable segments.
Summarised segment information for the years ended March 31,2022 and
2021, is as follows:
Year ended March 31, 2022
Banking,
Financial
Services and
Insurance
Revenue from
75,126
operations
Segment result
20,174
Total unallocable
expenses
Operating income
Other income
Profit before tax
Tax expense
Profit for the year
Depreciation
and amortisation
expense
(unallocable)
Significant non-cash
14
items (allocable)

Others

(` crore)
Total

31,874

Life
Sciences
and
Healthcare
20,462

14,967

1,91,754

9,518

6,139

3,090

53,057
5,388

Manufacturing

Retail and
Consumer
Business

Communication,
Media and
Technology

18,610

30,715

5,602

8,534

47,669
4,018
51,687
13,238
38,449
4,604

(3)

10

2

(1)

113

135

Consolidated Financial Statements | 303

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Year ended March 31, 2021
Banking,
Financial
Services and
Insurance
Revenue from
65,634
operations
Segment result
18,681
Total unallocable
expenses*
Operating income
Other income
Profit before tax
Tax expense
Profit for the year
Depreciation
and amortisation
expense
(unallocable)
Significant non-cash
15
items (allocable)

Others

(` crore)
Total

27,077

Life
Sciences
and
Healthcare
16,968

12,959

1,64,177

8,010

5,253

2,968

46,546
5,920

Manufacturing

Retail and
Consumer
Business

Communication,
Media and
Technology

15,950

25,589

4,483

7,151

40,626
3,134
43,760
11,198
32,562
4,065

1

78

9

1

97

201

*Includes the provision towards legal claim of `1,218 crore. Refer note 20.

Geographical revenue is allocated based on the location of the customers.
Information regarding geographical revenue is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

North America

96,865

81,575

Latin America

3,207

2,703

Americas

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

(` crore)

Europe
United Kingdom
Continental Europe
Asia Pacific
India
Middle East and Africa

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

30,399
30,743
16,927
9,805
3,808
1,91,754

25,659
26,687
15,830
8,449
3,274
1,64,177

Geographical non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, right-of-use
assets, goodwill, other intangible assets, income tax assets and other
non-current assets) are allocated based on the location of the assets.
Information regarding geographical non-current assets is as follows:
Geography
Americas
North America
Latin America
Europe
United Kingdom
Continental Europe
Asia Pacific
India
Middle East and Africa

As at
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021

1,637
852

1,630
840

1,470
2,164
743
19,494
152
26,512

1,546
2,472
882
17,901
134
25,405

Consolidated Financial Statements | 304

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Information about major customers
No single customer represents 10% or more of the Group’s total revenue for
the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021.
20) Commitments and contingencies
Capital commitments
The Group has contractually committed (net of advances) `1,439 crore and
`1,071 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, for purchase of
property, plant and equipment.
Contingencies
•
		
•
		

•
		

Direct tax matters
Refer note 17.
Indirect tax matters
The Company and its subsidiaries have ongoing disputes with tax
authorities mainly relating to treatment of characterisation and
classification of certain items. The Company and its subsidiaries have
demands amounting to `568 crore and `556 crore as at
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, from various indirect tax
authorities which are being contested by the Company and its subsidiaries
based on the management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.
Other claims
Claims aggregating `291 crore and `194 crore as at March 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively, against the Group have not been acknowledged as
debts.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

		

In addition to above, in October 2014, Epic Systems Corporation
(referred to as Epic) filed a legal claim against the Company in the Court
of Western District Madison, Wisconsin alleging unauthorised access to
and download of their confidential information and use thereof in the
development of the Company’s product MedMantra. In April 2016, the
Company received an unfavourable jury verdict awarding damages of
`7,115 crore (US $940 million) to Epic which was thereafter reduced
by the Trial Court to `3,179 crore (US $420 million). Pursuant to
reaffirmation of the District Court order in March 2019, the Company
filed an appeal in the Appeals Court to fully set aside the Order. Epic also
filed a cross appeal challenging the reduction by the District Court judge
of `757 crore (US $100 million) award and `1,514 crore
(US $200 million) in punitive damages. On August 20, 2020, the Appeals
Court vacated the award of `2,119 crore (US $280 million) in punitive
damages considering the award to be constitutionally excessive and
remanded the case back to District Court with instructions to reassess
and reduce the punitive damages award to at most `1,060 crore
(US $140 million), affirmed the District Court’s decision vacating the
jury’s award of `757 crore (US $100 million) in compensatory damages
for alleged use of “other confidential information” by the Company,
and affirmed the District Court’s decision upholding the jury’s award of
`1,060 crore (US $140 million) in compensatory damages for use of
the comparative analysis by the Company. The proceedings for assessing
punitive damages have been remanded back to the District Court. Both
the Company and Epic have filed their briefs at the District Court in
relation to punitive damages. The matter is under consideration by the
District Court. On April 8, 2021, Epic approached the Supreme Court
seeking review of the order of the Appeals Court vacating the award of
`2,119 crore (US $280 million) towards punitive damages and remanding
back to District Court with an instruction to reassess the punitive
Consolidated Financial Statements | 305

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
damages, to no more than `1,060 crore (US $140 million). On
March 21, 2022, Supreme Court denied Epic’s petition seeking review
of the order. The Company will continue to pursue all legal options
available in the matter. Considering all the facts and various legal
precedence, on a conservative and prudent basis, the Company provided
`1,218 crore (US $165 million) towards this legal claim in its statement
of profit and loss for three month period ended September 30, 2020.
This was presented as an “exceptional item” in the consolidated statement
of profit and loss.
		

Pursuant to US Court procedures, a Letter of Credit has been made
available to Epic for `3,331 crore (US $440 million) as financial security
in order to stay execution of the judgement pending post-appeal
proceedings and conclusion.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

•
		

Letter of comfort
The Company has given letter of comfort to banks for credit facilities
availed by its subsidiaries. As per the terms of letter of comfort, the
Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or
indirectly in the subsidiary and provide such managerial, technical and
financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the
subsidiary.

The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could
be claimed by counter parties.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 306

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
21) Statement of net assets, profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling interests
Name of the entity

Tata Consultancy
Services Limited
Subsidiaries (held
directly)
Indian
APTOnline Limited
MP Online Limited
C-Edge Technologies
Limited
MahaOnline Limited
TCS e-Serve
International Limited
TCS Foundation
Foreign
Diligenta Limited
Tata Consultancy
Services Canada Inc.
Tata America
International Corporation
Tata Consultancy
Services Asia Pacific Pte
Ltd.

Country of
incorporation

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2022

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2021

India

-

-

80.18

77,173

87.61

38,187

India
India
India

89.00
89.00
51.00

89.00
89.00
51.00

0.11
0.13
0.33

110
121
313

0.04
0.04
0.17

India
India

74.00
100.00

74.00
100.00

0.08
0.16

80
156

India

100.00

100.00

1.52

U.K.
Canada

100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00

U.S.A.

100.00

Singapore

100.00

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Net assets, i.e. total assets
minus total liabilities
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
net assets

Share in Profit or loss

Share in other
comprehensive income
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
other
comprehensive
income
252.53
(250)

Share in total
comprehensive income
As % of total
Amount
comprehensive (` crore)
income
87.24

37,937

18
18
73

1.01
1.01
-

(1)
(1)
-

0.04
0.04
0.17

17
17
73

0.20

1
88

-

-

0.20

1
88

1,467

0.87

379

-

-

0.87

379

1.46
0.87

1,402
834

0.02
1.11

8
484

(15.15)
-

15
-

0.05
1.11

23
484

100.00

1.27

1,219

1.65

721

4.04

(4)

1.65

717

100.00

0.93

897

0.43

187

-

-

0.43

187

As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount
(` crore)

Consolidated Financial Statements | 307

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Name of the entity

Tata Consultancy
Services Belgium
Tata Consultancy
Services Deutschland
GmbH
Tata Consultancy
Services Netherlands BV
Tata Consultancy
Services Sverige AB
TCS FNS Pty Limited
TCS Iberoamerica SA
Tata Consultancy
Services (Africa) (PTY)
Ltd.
Tata Consultancy
Services Qatar L.L.C.
Tata Consultancy
Services UK Limited
Tata Consultancy
Services Ireland Limited
Subsidiaries (held
indirectly)
Foreign
TCS e-Serve America,
Inc.

Country of
incorporation

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2022

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2021

Share in total
comprehensive income
As % of total
Amount
comprehensive (` crore)
income

98

Share in other
comprehensive income
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
other
comprehensive
income
-

Belgium

100.00

100.00

0.44

426

0.22

0.23

98

Germany

100.00

100.00

0.66

631

0.77

334

(9.09)

9

0.79

343

Netherlands

100.00

100.00

2.74

2,636

1.23

536

-

-

1.23

536

Sweden

100.00

100.00

0.92

887

0.36

157

-

-

0.36

157

Australia
Uruguay
South Africa

100.00
100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00
100.00

0.15
1.74
0.06

147
1,678
56

0.09
1.65
0.08

41
718
35

-

-

0.09
1.65
0.08

41
718
35

Qatar

100.00

100.00

0.03

33

-

1

-

-

-

1

U.K.

100.00

100.00

0.03

27

-

-

-

-

-

-

Ireland

100.00

100.00

0.25

245

0.05

21

-

-

0.05

21

U.S.A.

-

100.00

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Net assets, i.e. total assets
minus total liabilities
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
net assets

Share in Profit or loss
As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount
(` crore)

Consolidated Financial Statements | 308

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Name of the entity

Tata Consultancy
Services (China) Co., Ltd.
Tata Consultancy
Services Japan, Ltd.
Tata Consultancy
Services Malaysia Sdn
Bhd
PT Tata Consultancy
Services Indonesia
Tata Consultancy
Services (Philippines) Inc.
Tata Consultancy
Services (Thailand)
Limited
Tata Consultancy
Services Italia s.r.l.
Tata Consultancy
Services Luxembourg
S.A.
Tata Consultancy
Services Switzerland Ltd.
Tata Consultancy
Services Osterreich
GmbH
Tata Consultancy
Services Danmark ApS

Country of
incorporation

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2022

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2021

Share in total
comprehensive income
As % of total
Amount
comprehensive (` crore)
income

14

Share in other
comprehensive income
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
other
comprehensive
income
-

China

93.20

93.20

0.27

260

0.03

0.03

14

Japan

66.00

66.00

1.53

1,476

0.60

263

-

-

0.60

263

Malaysia

100.00

100.00

0.08

74

-

1

-

-

-

1

Indonesia

100.00

100.00

0.03

32

0.03

13

-

-

0.03

13

Philippines

100.00

100.00

0.12

113

0.12

54

(2.02)

2

0.13

56

Thailand

100.00

100.00

0.01

8

-

2

-

-

-

2

Italy

100.00

100.00

0.08

74

0.04

17

-

-

0.04

17

Capellen
(G.D. de
Luxembourg)
Switzerland

100.00

100.00

0.11

109

0.12

53

-

-

0.12

53

100.00

100.00

0.73

705

0.47

206

(48.48)

48

0.58

254

Austria

100.00

100.00

-

3

-

(2)

-

-

-

(2)

Denmark

100.00

100.00

0.01

6

-

-

-

-

-

-

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Net assets, i.e. total assets
minus total liabilities
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
net assets

Share in Profit or loss
As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount
(` crore)

Consolidated Financial Statements | 309

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Name of the entity

Tata Consultancy
Services De Espana S.A.
Tata Consultancy
Services (Portugal)
Unipessoal, Limitada
Tata Consultancy
Services France
Tata Consultancy
Services Saudi Arabia
TCS Business Services
GmbH
TCS Technology
Solutions AG
Saudi Desert Rose
Holding B.V.
Tata Consultancy
Services (South Africa)
(PTY) Ltd.
TCS Financial Solutions
Beijing Co., Ltd.
TCS Financial Solutions
Australia Pty Limited
Tata Consultancy
Services Bulgaria EOOD
TCS Solution Center S.A.

Country of
incorporation

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2022

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2021

Share in total
comprehensive income
As % of total
Amount
comprehensive (` crore)
income

19

Share in other
comprehensive income
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
other
comprehensive
income
-

Spain

100.00

100.00

0.07

70

0.04

0.04

19

Portugal

100.00

100.00

0.01

13

0.02

9

-

-

0.02

9

France

100.00

100.00

(0.40)

(385)

0.08

35

(6.06)

6

0.09

41

Saudi Arabia

100.00

76.00

0.12

112

(0.01)

(5)

11.11

(11)

(0.04)

(16)

Germany

100.00

100.00

0.02

20

0.03

15

(33.33)

33

0.11

48

Germany

100.00

100.00

0.24

230

0.49

213

(39.39)

39

0.58

252

Netherlands

100.00

-

-

2

0.08

34

-

-

0.08

34

South Africa

100.00

100.00

0.10

92

0.09

40

-

-

0.09

40

China

100.00

100.00

0.04

41

-

1

-

-

-

1

Australia

100.00

100.00

0.10

87

0.11

46

-

-

0.11

46

Bulgaria

100.00

-

0.01

9

0.02

9

-

-

0.02

9

Uruguay

100.00

100.00

0.37

357

0.28

120

-

-

0.28

120

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Net assets, i.e. total assets
minus total liabilities
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
net assets

Share in Profit or loss
As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount
(` crore)

Consolidated Financial Statements | 310

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Name of the entity

TCS Uruguay S.A.
Tata Consultancy
Services Argentina S.A.
Tata Consultancy
Services Do Brasil Ltda
Tata Consultancy
Services De Mexico S.A.,
De C.V.
MGDC S.C.
TCS Inversiones Chile
Limitada
Tata Consultancy
Services Chile S.A.
Tata Consultancy
Services Guatemala, S.A.
TATASOLUTION
CENTER S.A.
Trusts
TOTAL
a) Adjustments arising
out of consolidation
b) Non-controlling
interests
Indian subsidiaries
APTOnline Limited

Country of
incorporation

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2022

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2021

Uruguay
Argentina

100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00

0.12
-

117
2

0.24
-

Brazil

100.00

100.00

0.34

324

Mexico

100.00

100.00

0.63

Mexico
Chile

100.00
100.00

100.00
100.00

Chile

100.00

Guatemala
Ecuador
India

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Net assets, i.e. total assets
minus total liabilities
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
net assets

Share in total
comprehensive income
As % of total
Amount
comprehensive (` crore)
income

104
1

Share in other
comprehensive income
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
other
comprehensive
income
-

0.24
-

104
1

0.15

65

-

-

0.15

65

606

-

-

(15.15)

15

0.03

15

0.04
0.33

43
315

(0.18)
0.19

(79)
81

-

-

(0.17)
0.19

(79)
81

100.00

0.40

384

0.20

86

-

-

0.20

86

100.00

-

0.01

12

0.01

4

-

-

0.01

4

100.00

100.00

0.11

104

0.11

48

(1.03)

1

0.12

49

-

-

0.31
100.00

291
96,244
(6,398)

0.05
100.00

14
43,586
(5,137)

100.00

(99)
4

0.04
100.00

14
43,487
(5,133)

(12)

Share in Profit or loss
As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount
(` crore)

(2)

-

(2)

Consolidated Financial Statements | 311

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Name of the entity

Country of
incorporation

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2022

% of
voting
power
as at
March
31, 2021

Net assets, i.e. total assets
minus total liabilities
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
net assets

MP Online Limited
C-Edge Technologies
Limited
MahaOnline Limited
Foreign subsidiaries
Tata Consultancy
Services (China) Co.,
Ltd.
Tata Consultancy
Services Japan, Ltd.
TOTAL
TOTAL

Share in Profit or loss

(13)
(153)

(2)
(36)

Share in other
comprehensive income
As % of
Amount
consolidated
(` crore)
other
comprehensive
income
-

(21)

-

-

-

(18)

(1)

(2)

(3)

(490)

(81)

34

(47)

(707)

(122)

32

(90)

89,139

38,327

(63)

38,264

As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount
(` crore)

Share in total
comprehensive income
As % of total
Amount
comprehensive (` crore)
income
(2)
(36)

Notes:
1.

Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C. renamed as Tata Consultancy Services Qatar L.L.C..

2.

W12 Studios Limited renamed as Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited.

3.

Equity stake increased to 100% in Tata Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia on acquisition of Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V. w.e.f. May 26, 2021.

4.

Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, Tata Consultancy Services Bulgaria EOOD in Bulgaria on August 31, 2021.

5.

TCS Iberoamerica SA incorporated a subsidiary, Tata Consultancy Services Guatemala, S.A. in Guatemala on September 1, 2021.

6.

Postbank Systems AG renamed as TCS Technology Solutions AG.

7.

TCS e-Serve America, Inc. liquidated w.e.f. December 29, 2021.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 312

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
22) Related party transactions
The Company’s principal related parties consist of its holding company Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries, its own subsidiaries, affiliates and key managerial
personnel. The Group’s material related party transactions and outstanding balances are with related parties with whom the Group routinely enter into transactions in
the ordinary course of business. Refer note 21 for list of subsidiaries of the Company.
Transactions and balances with its own subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
Transactions with related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2022

Revenue from operations
Purchases of goods and services (including reimbursements)
Brand equity contribution
Facility expenses

Tata Sons Private
Limited

Subsidiaries of
Tata Sons Private
Limited

Associates / joint ventures of
Tata Sons Private Limited and
their subsidiaries

Other related
parties

Total

40

789

2,785

-

3,614

-

571

159

-

730

204

-

-

-

204

1

20

45

-

66

Lease rental

-

73

24

-

97

Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade receivables and
advances (net)

-

(3)

1

-

(2)

Contribution and advance to post employment benefit plans

-

-

-

2,322

2,322

Purchase of property, plant and equipment

-

15

147

-

162

Advances given

-

3

6

-

9

Advances recovered

-

4

17

-

21

Dividend paid

9,609

5

2

-

9,616

Buy-back of shares

11,164

4

6

-

11,174

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 313

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(` crore)
Year ended March 31, 2021
Tata Sons Private
Limited

Subsidiaries of
Tata Sons Private
Limited

Associates / joint ventures of
Tata Sons Private Limited and
their subsidiaries

Other related
parties

Total

Revenue from operations

35

609

2,205

-

2,849

Purchases of goods and services (including reimbursements)

1

475

361

-

837

180

-

-

-

180

Facility expenses

Brand equity contribution

-

20

42

-

62

Lease rental

1

36

45

-

82

Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade receivables and
advances (net)

-

2

-

-

2

Contribution and advance to post employment benefit plans

-

-

-

5,913

5,913

Purchase of property, plant and equipment

-

3

88

-

91

Advances given

-

1

6

-

7

Advances recovered

-

1

10

-

11

Advances taken

-

1

5

-

6

Dividend paid

7,817

4

3

-

7,824

Buy-back of shares

9,998

4

-

-

10,002

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Consolidated Financial Statements | 314

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022
Tata Sons
Private Limited

Subsidiaries of
Tata Sons Private
Limited

Associates / joint ventures
of Tata Sons Private Limited
and their subsidiaries

Other related
parties

Total

Trade receivables and contract assets

11

245

925

-

Loans, other financial assets and other assets

10

53

31

-

94

21

298

956

-

1,275

Subsidiaries of
Tata Sons Private
Limited
260
27
287

As at March 31, 2021
Associates / joint ventures
of Tata Sons Private Limited
and their subsidiaries
714
62
776

1,181

(` crore)
Tata Sons
Private Limited
Trade receivables and contract assets
Loans, other financial assets and other assets

8
9
17

Other related
parties

Total

-

982
98
1,080

Balances payable to related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022

Trade payables, unearned and deferred revenue, other financial liabilities and
other liabilities
Commitments and guarantees
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Tata Sons
Private Limited

Subsidiaries of
Tata Sons Private
Limited

Associates / joint ventures
of Tata Sons Private Limited
and their subsidiaries

Other related
parties

Total

189

499

146

-

834

-

37

201

-

238

Consolidated Financial Statements | 315

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2021
Tata Sons
Private Limited

Subsidiaries of
Tata Sons Private
Limited

Associates / joint ventures
of Tata Sons Private Limited
and their subsidiaries

175

299

394

-

868

-

10

270

-

280

Trade payables, unearned and deferred revenue, other financial liabilities and
other liabilities
Commitments and guarantees

Material related party transactions are as follows:

Other related
parties

Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:
(` crore)

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021
Short-term benefits

Revenue from operations
Jaguar Land Rover Limited
Tata Steel IJmuiden BV

1,500
558

1,093
452

Material related party balances are as follows:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

379

290

Trade receivables and contract assets
Jaguar Land Rover Limited

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Total

Dividend paid during the year

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

53

43

1

1

54

44

The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the
remuneration committee having regard to the performance of individuals and
market trends.
The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity
and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation /
premium paid are not available.

Consolidated Financial Statements | 316

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements
23) The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is `12 crore
and `10 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
24) The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which
would impact the contributions by the company towards Provident Fund
and Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment had released draft
rules for the Code on Social Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020, and
invited suggestions from stakeholders which are under consideration by the
Ministry. The Company and its Indian subsidiaries will assess the impact and
its evaluation once the subject rules are notified. The Company and its Indian
subsidiaries will give appropriate impact in its financial statements in the period
in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the
financial impact are published.
25) Dividends
Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2022 include an amount of
`15.00 per equity share towards final dividend for the year ended
March 31,2021 and an amount of `21.00 per equity share towards interim
dividends for the year ended March 31, 2022. Dividends paid during the year
ended March 31, 2021 include an amount of `6.00 per equity share towards
final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2020 and an amount of `23.00

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

per equity share towards interim dividends for the year ended
March 31, 2021.
Dividends declared by the Company are based on profits available for
distribution. On April 11, 2022, the Board of Directors of the Company
have proposed a final dividend of `22.00 per share in respect of the year
ended March 31, 2022 subject to the approval of shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting, and if approved, would result in a cash outflow of
approximately `8,050 crore.
As per our report of even date attached

For and on behalf of the Board

For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no:
101248W/W-100022

Rajesh Gopinathan N Ganapathy Subramaniam
CEO and
COO and Executive Director
Managing Director

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Samir Seksaria
CFO

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary

Consolidated Financial Statements | 317

Standalone Financial
Statements

Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements
of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter
referred to as “the Company”), which comprise the
Standalone Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2022,
and the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
(including other comprehensive income), Standalone
Statement of Changes in Equity and Standalone
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended,
and notes to the standalone financial statements,
including a summary of the significant accounting
policies and other explanatory information
(hereinafter referred to as “the standalone financial
statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information
and according to the explanations given to us, the
aforesaid standalone financial statements give the
information required by the Companies Act, 2013
(“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a
true and fair view in conformity with the accounting
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of
affairs of the Company as at 31 March 2022, and
its profit and other comprehensive loss, changes in
equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that
date.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the
Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under
those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone
Financial Statements section of our report. We
are independent of the Company in accordance
with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of India together with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit
of the standalone financial statements under the
provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements and the Code of
Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence obtained
by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our opinion on the standalone financial
statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters (‘KAM’) are those matters that, in
our professional judgment, were of most significance
in our audit of the standalone financial statements of
the current period. These matters were addressed in
the context of our audit of the standalone financial
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion
on these matters.
Standalone Financial Statements | 318

Description of Key Audit Matter

Key audit matter

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the key audit matter

•

these contracts may involve onerous
obligations which requires critical assessment
of foreseeable losses to be made by the
Company; and

•

at year-end, significant amount of work in
progress (Contract assets), related to these
contracts are recognised on the balance
sheet.

Revenue recognition– Fixed price contracts
The Company inter alia engages in Fixed-price
contracts, wherein, revenue is recognized using
the percentage of completion computed as
per the input method based on the Company’s
estimate of contract costs (Refer Note 4(a) and
Note 10 to the standalone financial statements).
We identified revenue recognition of fixed price
contracts where the percentage of completion is
used as a Key Audit Matter since –
•

•

there is an inherent risk and presumed fraud
risk around the accuracy and existence
of revenues recognised considering the
customised and complex nature of these
contracts and significant inputs of IT systems;
application of revenue recognition accounting
standard (Ind AS 115, Revenue from
Contracts with customers) is complex and
involves a number of key judgments and
estimates mainly in identifying performance
obligations, related transaction price and
estimating the future cost-to-completion of
these contracts, which is used to determine
the percentage of completion of the relevant
performance obligation;

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Our audit procedures included the following:
•

•

Obtained an understanding of the systems,
processes and controls implemented by
the Company for recording and computing
revenue and the associated contract assets,
unearned and deferred revenue balances.
Including involvement of our Information
technology (‘IT’) specialists, as required:
 Assessed the IT environment in which
the business systems operate and tested
system controls over computation of
revenue recognised;

How our audit addressed the key audit matter
•

On selected specific and statistical samples
of contracts, we tested that the revenue
recognized is in accordance with the revenue
recognition accounting standard including–
 Evaluated the identification of
performance obligations and the ascribed
transaction price;
 For testing Company’s computation of the
estimation of contract costs and onerous
obligations, if any. We:

		

•

assessed that the estimates of costs
to complete were reviewed and
approved by appropriate designated
management personnel;

		

•

performed a retrospective analysis of
costs incurred with estimated costs
to identify significant variations and
challenged whether those variations
are required to be considered in
estimating the remaining costs to
complete the contract;

		

•

assessed the appropriateness of
work in progress (contract assets) on
balance sheet date by evaluating the
underlying documentation to identify
possible changes in estimated costs to
complete the remaining performance
obligations; and

		

•

inspected underlying documents and
performed analytics to determine
reasonableness of contract costs.

 Tested the IT controls over
appropriateness of cost and revenue
reports generated by the system;
 Tested the controls pertaining to
allocation of resources and budgeting
systems which prevent the unauthorized
recording/changes to costs incurred; and
 Tested on a random sampling basis the
controls relating to the estimation of
contract costs required to complete the
respective projects.

Standalone Financial Statements | 319

Other Information
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors
are responsible for the other information. The other
information comprises the information included in
the Company’s annual report, but does not include
the financial statements and our auditors’ report
thereon. The Company’s annual report is expected
to be made available to us after the date of this
auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements
does not cover the other information and we will not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the
other information identified above when it becomes
available and, in doing so, consider whether the
other information is materially inconsistent with the
standalone financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be
materially misstated.
When we read the Company’s annual report, if
we conclude that there is a material misstatement
therein, we are required to communicate the
matter to those charged with governance and take
necessary actions, as applicable under the relevant
laws and regulations.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Management’s and Board of Directors’
Responsibilities for the Standalone Financial
Statements
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors
are responsible for the matters stated in Section
134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation
of these standalone financial statements that give
a true and fair view of the state of affairs, profit/
loss and other comprehensive income, changes in
equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance
with the accounting principles generally accepted
in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards
(Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the Act. This
responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions
of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the
Company and for preventing and detecting frauds
and other irregularities; selection and application of
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
and design, implementation and maintenance
of adequate internal financial controls that were
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to
the preparation and presentation of the standalone
financial statements that give a true and fair view and
are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.

In preparing the standalone financial statements, the
Management and Board of Directors are responsible
for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the Board of
Directors either intends to liquidate the Company
or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative
but to do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting
process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the standalone financial statements
as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance,
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with SAs will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these
standalone financial statements.
Standalone Financial Statements | 320

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we
exercise professional judgment and maintain
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We
also:
•

•

•

Identify and assess the risks of material
misstatement of the standalone financial
statements, whether due to fraud or error,
design and perform audit procedures responsive
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control
relevant to the audit in order to design
audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the
Act, we are also responsible for expressing our
opinion on whether the Company has adequate
internal financial controls with reference to
standalone financial statements in place and the
operating effectiveness of such controls.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting
policies used and the reasonableness of

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

accounting estimates and related disclosures
made by the Management and Board of
Directors.
•

•

Conclude on the appropriateness of the
Management and Board of Directors use
of the going concern basis of accounting in
preparation of standalone financial statements
and, based on the audit evidence obtained,
whether a material uncertainty exists related to
events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the Company’s ability to continue
as a going concern. If we conclude that a
material uncertainty exists, we are required
to draw attention in our auditor’s report to
the related disclosures in the standalone
financial statements or, if such disclosures
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report.
However, future events or conditions may cause
the Company to cease to continue as a going
concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and
content of the standalone financial statements,
including the disclosures, and whether the
standalone financial statements represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner
that achieves fair presentation.

We communicate with those charged with
governance regarding, among other matters, the
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in
internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with
a statement that we have complied with relevant
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to
communicate with them all relationships and other
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on
our independence, and where applicable, related
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged
with governance, we determine those matters
that were of most significance in the audit of the
standalone financial statements of the current
period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should
not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits
of such communication.

Standalone Financial Statements | 321

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory
Requirements
1.

2.

As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report)
Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the
Central Government of India in terms of
Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in the
“Annexure A” a statement on the matters
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to
the extent applicable.

Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by
this Report are in agreement with the
books of account.
		

d)

In our opinion, the aforesaid
standalone financial statements comply
with the Ind AS specified under Section
133 of the Act.

		

e)

On the basis of the written
representations received from the
directors as on 31 March 2022 taken
on record by the Board of Directors,
none of the directors is disqualified
as on 31 March 2022 from being
appointed as a director in terms of
Section 164(2) of the Act.

(A) As required by Section 143(3) of the Act,
we report that:

		

a)

We have sought and obtained all the
information and explanations which to
the best of our knowledge and belief
were necessary for the purposes of
our audit.

		

b)

In our opinion, proper books of
account as required by law have been
kept by the Company so far as it
appears from our examination of those
books.

		

c)

The Standalone Balance Sheet, the
Standalone Statement of Profit and
Loss (including other comprehensive
income), the Standalone Statement of
Changes in Equity and the Standalone

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

		

f)

With respect to the adequacy of
the internal financial controls with
reference to standalone financial
statements of the Company and
the operating effectiveness of such
controls, refer to our separate Report
in “Annexure B”.

(B) With respect to the other matters to
be included in the Auditor’s Report in
accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
(Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our

opinion and to the best of our information
and according to the explanations given to
us:
		

a)

The Company has disclosed the
impact of pending litigations as
at 31 March 2022 on its financial
position in its standalone financial
statements - Refer Note 19 to the
standalone financial statements.

		

b)

The Company did not have any longterm contracts including derivative
contracts for which there were any
material foreseeable losses.

		

c)

There has been no delay in
transferring amounts, required to be
transferred, to the Investor Education
and Protection Fund by the Company.

		

d)

(i)

The management has represented
that, to the best of its knowledge
and belief, no funds have been
advanced or loaned or invested
(either from borrowed funds
or share premium or any other
sources or kind of funds) by the
Company to or in any other
persons or entities, including
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”),
Standalone Financial Statements | 322

with the understanding, whether
recorded in writing or otherwise,
that the Intermediary shall:
				

•

directly or indirectly lend
or invest in other persons
or entities identified in
any manner whatsoever
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) by
or on behalf of the Company
or

				

•

provide any guarantee,
security or the like to or
on behalf of the Ultimate
Beneficiaries.

			

The management has
represented, that, to the best
of its knowledge and belief, no
funds have been received by the
Company from any persons or
entities, including foreign entities
(“Funding Parties”), with the
understanding, whether recorded

(ii)

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

in writing or otherwise, that the
Company shall:
				

•

directly or indirectly, lend
or invest in other persons
or entities identified in
any manner whatsoever
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) by
or on behalf of the Funding
Party or

				

•

provide any guarantee,
security or the like from or
on behalf of the Ultimate
Beneficiaries; and

			

		

e)

(iii) Based on such audit procedures
as considered reasonable and
appropriate in the circumstances,
nothing has come to our notice
that has caused us to believe that
the representations under subclause (d) (i) and (d) (ii) contain any
material mis-statement.
The dividend declared or paid during
the year by the Company is in
compliance with Section 123 of the
Act.

(C) With respect to the matter to be included
in the Auditor’s Report under Section
197(16) of the Act:
		

In our opinion and according to the
information and explanations given to us,
the remuneration paid by the Company to
its directors during the current year is in
accordance with the provisions of Section
197 of the Act. The remuneration paid to
any director is not in excess of the limit
laid down under Section 197 of the Act.
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not
prescribed other details under Section
197(16) of the Act which are required to
be commented upon by us.

For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022

Mumbai
11 April 2022

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
UDIN: 22060154AGVEXH5342

Standalone Financial Statements | 323

Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s
report on the standalone financial statements
of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the
year ended 31 March 2022
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other
Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our
report of even date)
(i)

(a) (A) The Company has maintained proper
records showing full particulars,
including quantitative details and
situation of Property, plant and
equipment.

		

(B) The Company has maintained proper
records showing full particulars of
Intangible assets.

(b) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of the
Company, the Company has a regular
programme of physical verification of its
Property, plant and equipment by which all
Property, plant and equipment are verified
in a phased manner over a period of three
years. In accordance with this programme,
certain Property, plant and equipment were
verified during the year. In our opinion,
this periodicity of physical verification is
reasonable having regard to the size of
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

the Company and the nature of its assets.
No material discrepancies were noticed on
such verification.
(c) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of the
Company, the title deeds of immovable
properties (other than immovable
properties where the Company is the
lessee and the lease agreements are duly
executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed
in the standalone financial statements are
held in the name of the Company.
(d) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of the
Company, the Company has not revalued
its Property, plant and equipment (including
Right-of-use assets) or Intangible assets or
both during the year.
(e) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of
the Company, there are no proceedings
initiated or pending against the Company
for holding any benami property under
the Prohibition of Benami Property
Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made
thereunder.

(ii)

(a) The inventory has been physically verified
by the management during the year.
In our opinion, the frequency of such
verification is reasonable and procedures
and coverage as followed by management
were appropriate. No discrepancies were
noticed on verification between the physical
stocks and the book records that were 10%
or more in the aggregate for each class of
inventory.
(b) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of
the Company, the Company has been
sanctioned working capital limits in excess
of five crore rupees, in aggregate, from
banks on the basis of security of current
assets. In our opinion, the quarterly returns
or statements filed by the Company with
such banks are in agreement with the
books of account of the Company.

(iii) According to the information and explanations
given to us and on the basis of our examination
of the records of the Company, the Company
has not made any investments, provided
guarantee or security or granted any advances
in the nature of loans, secured or unsecured, to
companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or
any other parties during the year. The Company
Standalone Financial Statements | 324

has granted loans to one company during the
year, details of the loan is stated in sub-clause
(a) below. The Company has not granted any
loans, secured or unsecured, to firms, limited
liability partnerships or any other parties during
the year.
(a) A.

		

B.

Based on the audit procedures carried
on by us and as per the information
and explanations given to us, the
Company has not granted any loans to
subsidiaries.
Based on the audit procedures carried
on by us and as per the information
and explanations given to us, the
Company has granted loans to a party
other than subsidiaries as below:
Particulars

Amount
(` in crores)

Aggregate amount during
the year - Others

13,655

Balance outstanding as
at balance sheet date Others

5,386

(b) According to the information and
explanations given to us and based on
the audit procedures conducted by us,
we are of the opinion that the terms and
conditions of the loans given are, prima
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

facie, not prejudicial to the interest of the
Company.

without specifying any terms or period of
repayment.

(c) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of
the Company, in the case of loans given,
the repayment of principal and payment
of interest has been stipulated and the
repayments or receipts have been regular.

(iv) According to the information and explanations
given to us and on the basis of our examination
of the records, the Company has not given any
loans, or provided any guarantee or security as
specified under Section 185 of the Companies
Act, 2013 and the Company has not provided
any guarantee or security as specified under
Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Further, the Company has complied with the
provisions of Section 186 of the Companies
Act, 2013 in relation to loans given and
investments made.

(d) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of the
Company, there is no overdue amount for
more than ninety days in respect of loans
given.
(e) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of the
Company, there is no loan given falling due
during the year, which has been renewed
or extended or fresh loans given to settle
the overdues of existing loans given to the
same party.
(f)

According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of the
Company, the Company has not given
any loans either repayable on demand or

(v)

The Company has not accepted any deposits or
amounts which are deemed to be deposits from
the public. Accordingly, clause 3(v) of the Order
is not applicable.

(vi) According to the information and explanations
given to us, the Central Government has not
prescribed the maintenance of cost records
under Section 148(1) of the Companies Act,
2013 for the products manufactured by it (and/
or services provided by it). Accordingly, clause
3(vi) of the Order is not applicable.
(vii) (a) The Company does not have liability in
respect of Sales tax, Service tax, Duty of
excise and Value added tax during the year
Standalone Financial Statements | 325

		

		

since effective 1 July 2017, these statutory dues has been subsumed into
GST.

Name of the
Statute

According to the information and explanations given to us and on the
basis of our examination of the records of the Company, amounts
deducted/ accrued in the books of account in respect of undisputed
statutory dues including Goods and Services Tax (‘GST’), Provident fund,
Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Duty of Customs, Cess and
other material statutory dues have generally been regularly deposited
with the appropriate authorities.

The Central Sales tax
Sales Tax Act, and VAT
1956 and
Value Added
Tax Act

Nature of
the Dues

Name of the
Statute

Nature of
the Dues

Amount
(` in crores)**

The Income- Income-tax
tax Act, 1961

Period

Commissioner of
Income-tax (Appeals)

545 Assessment Year - 2006-07, 2015-16

Income-tax Appellate
Tribunal

39 Assessment Year - 2008-09, 2009-10,
2010-11, 2016-17
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Assessing Officer /
National Faceless
Assessment Centre

Forum where dispute is
pending

233 Financial Year - 1994-1995, 2004-2005, High Court
2007-2008, 2008-2009, 2009-2010,
2010-2011, 2011-2012, 2012-2013,
2013-2014, 2014-2015, 2015-2016,
2016-17, 2017-18

2 Financial Year - 1995-1996, 1997-1998, Assistant Commissioner
2004-2005, 2005-2006, 2011-2012,
2016-17, 2017-18
5 Financial Year - 2008-2009, 2010-2011, Deputy Commissioner
2011-2012, 2012-2013, 2013-2014,
2015-2016, 2016-2017
16 Financial Year - 1997-1998, 2005-2006, Joint Commissioner
2012-13, 2013-2014, 2014-2015,
2015-2016, 2016-2017
The Finance
Act, 1994

Service tax

Forum where dispute is
pending

4,181 Assessment Year - 2007-08,
2011-12, 2017-18, 2018-19

Period

8 Financial Year - 1990-1991, 2002-2003, Tribunal
2003-2004, 2004-2005, 2005-2006,
2006-2007, 2011-2012, 2012-2013

According to the information and explanations given to us, no undisputed
amounts payable in respect of GST, Provident fund, Employees’ State
Insurance, Income-tax, Duty of Customs, Cess and other material
statutory dues were in arrears as at 31 March 2022 for a period of more
than six months from the date they became payable.

(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no
dues of GST, Provident fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax,
Sales tax, Service tax, Duty of Customs, Value added tax, Cess or other
statutory dues which have not been deposited by the Company on
account of disputes, except for the following:

Amount
(` in crores)**

2 Financial Year - 2002-2003, 2003-2004, Commissioner Appeals
2004-2005, 2008-09, 2009-2010,
2010-2011, 2011-2012, 2012-13,
2014-2015, 2015-2016, 2016-2017,
2017-2018
212 Financial Year - 2006-2007, 2007-2008, Tribunal
2009-2010, 2010-2011, 2012-2013,
2013-2014, 2014-2015, 2015-2016,
2016-2017, 2017-2018

Goods and
Service Tax
Act

GST

2 Financial Year – 2020-21

Commissioner Appeals

3 Financial Year – 2019-20

Assistant Commissioner

** These amounts are net of amount paid/ adjusted under protest ` 769 crores
Standalone Financial Statements | 326

(viii) According to the information and explanations
given to us and on the basis of our examination
of the records of the Company, the Company
has not surrendered or disclosed any
transactions, previously unrecorded as income
in the books of account, in the tax assessments
under the Income-tax Act, 1961 as income
during the year.
(ix) (a) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of the
Company, the Company did not have any
loans or borrowings from any lender during
the year. Accordingly, clause 3(ix)(a) of the
Order is not applicable.
(b) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of the
Company, the Company has not been
declared a wilful defaulter by any bank
or financial institution or government or
government authority.
(c) According to the information and
explanations given to us by the
management, the Company has not
obtained any term loans. Accordingly,
clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
(d) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on an overall
examination of the balance sheet of the
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Company, we report that no funds have
been raised on short-term basis by the
Company. Accordingly, clause 3(ix)(d) of the
Order is not applicable.
(e) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on an overall
examination of the financial statements
of the Company, we report that the
Company has not taken any funds from
any entity or person on account of or to
meet the obligations of its subsidiaries as
defined under the Companies Act, 2013.
Accordingly, clause 3(ix)(e) of the Order is
not applicable.
(f) According to the information and
explanations given to us and procedures
performed by us, we report that the
Company has not raised loans during
the year on the pledge of securities held
in its subsidiaries as defined under the
Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, clause
3(ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable.
(x) (a) The Company has not raised any moneys
by way of initial public offer or further
public offer (including debt instruments).
Accordingly, clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is
not applicable.
(b) According to the information and
explanations given to us and on the basis
of our examination of the records of the

Company, the Company has not made any
preferential allotment or private placement
of shares or fully or partly convertible
debentures during the year. Accordingly,
clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable.
(xi) (a) Based on examination of the books and
records of the Company and according to
the information and explanations given to
us, considering the principles of materiality
outlined in Standards on Auditing, we
report that no fraud by the Company or on
the Company has been noticed or reported
during the course of the audit.
(b) According to the information and
explanations given to us, no report under
sub-section (12) of Section 143 of the
Companies Act, 2013 has been filed by
the auditors in Form ADT-4 as prescribed
under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and
Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central
Government.
(c) We have taken into consideration the
whistle blower complaints received by
the Company during the year while
determining the nature, timing and extent
of our audit procedures.
(xii) According to the information and explanations
given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi
Company. Accordingly, clause 3(xii) of the Order
is not applicable.
Standalone Financial Statements | 327

(xiii) In our opinion and according to the information
and explanations given to us, the transactions
with related parties are in compliance with
Sections 177 and 188 of the Companies Act,
2013, where applicable, and the details of the
related party transactions have been disclosed in
the standalone financial statements as required
by the applicable Indian Accounting Standards.
(xiv) (a) Based on information and explanations
provided to us and our audit procedures, in
our opinion, the Company has an internal
audit system commensurate with the size
and nature of its business.
(b) We have considered the internal audit
reports of the Company issued till date for
the period under audit.
(xv) In our opinion and according to the information
and explanations given to us, the Company has
not entered into any non-cash transactions
with its directors or persons connected to its
directors and hence, provisions of Section 192
of the Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable
to the Company.
(xvi) (a) The Company is not required to be
registered under Section 45-IA of
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is
not applicable.
(b) The Company is not required to be
registered under Section 45-IA of
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is
not applicable.
(c) The Company is not a Core Investment
Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations
made by the Reserve Bank of India.
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is
not applicable.
(d) According to the information and
explanations provided to us during the
course of audit, the Group does not have
any CIC. Accordingly, the requirements of
clause 3(xvi)(d) are not applicable.
(xvii)	The Company has not incurred cash losses in
the current and in the immediately preceding
financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory
auditors during the year. Accordingly, clause
3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xix) According to the information and explanations
given to us and on the basis of the financial
ratios, ageing and expected dates of realisation
of financial assets and payment of financial
liabilities, other information accompanying the
financial statements, our knowledge of the
Board of Directors and management plans
and based on our examination of the evidence
supporting the assumptions, nothing has come
to our attention, which causes us to believe
that any material uncertainty exists as on the

date of the audit report that the Company is
not capable of meeting its liabilities existing
at the date of balance sheet as and when they
fall due within a period of one year from the
balance sheet date. We, however, state that
this is not an assurance as to the future viability
of the Company. We further state that our
reporting is based on the facts up to the date
of the audit report and we neither give any
guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities
falling due within a period of one year from the
balance sheet date, will get discharged by the
Company as and when they fall due.
(xx) In our opinion and according to the information
and explanations given to us, there is no
unspent amount under sub-section (5) of
Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013
pursuant to any project. Accordingly, clauses
3(xx)(a) and 3(xx)(b) of the Order are not
applicable.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022

Mumbai
11 April 2022

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
UDIN: 22060154AGVEXH5342
Standalone Financial Statements | 328

Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s
Report on the standalone financial
statements of Tata Consultancy Services
Limited for the year ended 31 March 2022
Report on the internal financial controls with
reference to the aforesaid standalone financial
statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of
Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013
(Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(f) under ‘Report on
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section
of our report of even date)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with
reference to standalone financial statements of Tata
Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company”) as of
31 March 2022 in conjunction with our audit of the
standalone financial statements of the Company as
at and for the year ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material
respects, adequate internal financial controls with
reference to standalone financial statements and
such internal financial controls were operating
effectively as at 31 March 2022, based on the
internal financial controls with reference to
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

standalone financial statements criteria established
by the Company considering the essential
components of internal control stated in the
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial
Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the
“Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’
Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management and the Board of
Directors are responsible for establishing and
maintaining internal financial controls with reference
to standalone financial statements based on the
criteria established by the Company considering the
essential components of internal control stated in
the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include
the design, implementation and maintenance of
adequate internal financial controls that were
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence
to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of
its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds
and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the
accounting records, and the timely preparation of
reliable financial information, as required under the
Act.

Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company’s internal financial controls with reference
to standalone financial statements based on our
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with
the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing,
prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to
the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial
controls with reference to standalone financial
statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note
require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether adequate internal financial
controls with reference to standalone financial
statements were established and maintained and
whether such controls operated effectively in all
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to
obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of
the internal financial controls with reference to
standalone financial statements and their operating
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls
with reference to standalone financial statements
included obtaining an understanding of such internal
financial controls, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control
Standalone Financial Statements | 329

based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the standalone financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial
controls with reference to standalone financial
statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with
Reference to Standalone Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with
reference to standalone financial statements is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of standalone financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal
financial controls with reference to standalone
financial statements include those policies and

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of standalone
financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorisations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection
of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on
the standalone financial statements.

collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error
or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also,
projections of any evaluation of the internal financial
controls with reference to standalone financial
statements to future periods are subject to the risk
that the internal financial controls with reference
to standalone financial statements may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022

Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial
Controls with Reference to Standalone Financial
Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal
financial controls with reference to standalone
financial statements, including the possibility of

Mumbai
11 April 2022

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154
UDIN: 22060154AGVEXH5342

Standalone Financial Statements | 330

Standalone Balance Sheet
(` crore)
Note

As at
March 31, 2022

(` crore)

As at
March 31, 2021

ASSETS

Inventories

Property, plant and equipment

8(a)

9,669

9,821

Financial assets

Capital work-in-progress

8(a)

1,146

861

Investments

Right-of-use assets

7

5,837

5,876

Intangible assets

8(b)

1,018

362

6(a)

6(b)

Unbilled

Billed

19

7

6(a)

29,262

28,324

6(b)

29,852

25,222

6,250

5,399

Cash and cash equivalents

6(c)

8,197

2,405

2,405

1,112

Other balances with banks

6(d)

5,495

2,030

90

55

Loans

6(e)

5,653

10,486

53

260

6(f)

1,432

1,363

8(c)

8,032

9,217

94,192

83,160

1,21,263

1,09,381

Other financial assets

Loans

6(e)

8

2

Other assets

Other financial assets

6(f)

626

645

Total current assets

1,643

1,501

TOTAL ASSETS

2,779

3,160

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

1,797

1,273

Equity

27,071

26,221

Income tax assets (net)
Deferred tax assets (net)

15

Other assets

8(c)

Share capital

6(n)

366

370

Other equity

9

76,807

74,424

77,173

74,794

Total equity
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

8(d)

Unbilled

Trade receivables

Total non-current assets

As at
March 31, 2021

Trade receivables

Financial assets

Billed

As at
March 31, 2022

Current assets

Non-current assets

Investments

Note

Standalone Financial Statements | 331

Standalone Balance Sheet
(` crore)
Note
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Employee benefit obligations
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
Unearned and deferred revenue
Total non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities
Trade payables
	Dues of small enterprises and micro
enterprises
	Dues of creditors other than small
enterprises and micro enterprises
Other financial liabilities
Unearned and deferred revenue
Other liabilities
Provisions
Employee benefit obligations
Income tax liabilities (net)
Total current liabilities
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

6(i)
12
15

6(g)

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

4,879
518
103
129
560
6,189

5,077
228
108
365
284
6,062

976

835

-

-

6(h)

10,082

7,962

6(i)

5,826
3,013
7,033
1,377
2,844
6,750
37,901
1,21,263

4,473
2,877
2,720
1,350
2,598
5,710
28,525
1,09,381

8(e)
8(f)
12

NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached

For and on behalf of the Board

For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no:
101248W/W-100022

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and
Managing Director

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Samir Seksaria
CFO

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Mumbai, April 11, 2022
Standalone Financial Statements | 332

Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
Year ended
March 31, 2022
1,60,341
7,486
1,67,827

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
1,35,963
5,400
1,41,363

81,097
1,010
486
3,522
31,989
1,18,104
49,723

69,046
1,230
537
3,053
25,377
99,243
42,120

19

49,723

1,218
40,902

15
15

11,931
(395)
11,536
38,187

10,300
(358)
9,942
30,960

180

(16)

(39)

3

Note
Revenue from operations
Other income
TOTAL INCOME
Expenses
Employee benefit expenses
Cost of equipment and software licences
Finance costs
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Other expenses
TOTAL EXPENSES
PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM AND TAX
Exceptional item
Provision towards legal claim
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Tax expense
Current tax
Deferred tax
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently
to profit or loss
	Remeasurement of defined employee benefit
plans
Income tax on items that will not be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

10
11

12
13(a)
14
13(b)

Note
Items that will be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
	Net change in fair values of investments other
than equity shares carried at fair value through
OCI
	Net change in intrinsic value of derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges
	Net change in time value of derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges
Income tax on items that will be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss
TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME / (LOSSES)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR
Earnings per equity share:- Basic and diluted (`)
Weighted average number of equity shares

16

Year ended
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021

(516)

51

(37)

14

(34)

53

196

(32)

(250)
37,937
103.24
369,88,32,195

73
31,033
82.78
374,01,10,733

NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board
For B S R & Co. LLP
Rajesh Gopinathan
N Ganapathy Subramaniam
Chartered Accountants
CEO and
COO and Executive Director
Firm’s registration no:
Managing Director
101248W/W-100022
Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Samir Seksaria
CFO

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Mumbai, April 11, 2022
Standalone Financial Statements | 333

Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
A. EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
Balance as at April 1, 2021
370

Balance as at April 1, 2020
375

Changes in equity share capital
due to prior period errors

Changes in equity share capital
due to prior period errors

Restated balance as at
April 1, 2021

-

Restated balance as at
April 1, 2020

-

370

Changes in equity share capital
during the year*
(4)

375

Changes in equity share capital
during the year*
(5)

(` crore)
Balance as at March 31, 2022
366
(` crore)
Balance as at March 31, 2021
370

*Refer note 6(n).

B. OTHER EQUITY

Capital
reserve*
Balance as at April 1, 2021
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income / (losses)
Total comprehensive income
Dividend
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares1
Tax on buy-back of equity shares1
Buy-back of equity shares1
Transfer to Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve
Transfer from Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve
Balance as at March 31, 2022
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Reserves and surplus
Capital redemption
Special Economic Zone
reserve
re-investment reserve

Retained
earnings

Items of other comprehensive income
Investment
Cash flow hedging reserve
revaluation
Intrinsic value
Time value
reserve

(` crore)
Total Equity

-

13
4
-

2,538
9,407

70,928
38,187
141
38,328
(13,317)
(49)
(4,192)
(18,000)
(9,407)

916
(336)
(336)
-

56
(29)
(29)
-

(27)
(26)
(26)
-

74,424
38,187
(250)
37,937
(13,317)
(49)
(4,192)
(17,996)
-

-

-

(4,658)

4,658

-

-

-

-

-

17

7,287

68,949

580

27

(53)

76,807

Standalone Financial Statements | 334

Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity

Capital
reserve*

Reserves and surplus
Capital redemption
Special Economic Zone
reserve
re-investment reserve

Retained
earnings

Items of other comprehensive income
Investment
Cash flow hedging reserve
revaluation
Intrinsic value
Time value
reserve
882
45
(68)

(` crore)
Total Equity

Balance as at April 1, 2020

-

8

1,594

71,532

Profit for the year

-

-

-

30,960

-

-

-

73,993

Other comprehensive income / (losses)

-

-

-

(13)

34

11

41

73

Total comprehensive income

-

-

-

30,947

34

11

41

31,033
(10,850)

30,960

Dividend

-

-

-

(10,850)

-

-

-

Expenses for buy-back of equity shares1

-

-

-

(31)

-

-

-

(31)

Tax on buy-back of equity shares1

-

-

-

(3,726)

-

-

-

(3,726)

Buy-back of equity shares1

-

5

-

(16,000)

-

-

-

(15,995)

Transfer to Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve

-

-

5,058

(5,058)

-

-

-

-

Transfer from Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve

-

-

(4,114)

4,114

-

-

-

-

Balance as at March 31, 2021

-

13

2,538

70,928

916

56

(27)

74,424

*Represents values less than `0.50 crore.
Refer Note 6(n).

1

Gain of `141 crore and loss of `13 crore on remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans (net of tax) is recognised as a part of retained earnings for the years ended March 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 335

Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
Nature and purpose of reserves
(a) Capital reserve
The Company recognises profit and loss on purchase, sale, issue or
cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments to capital reserve.
(b) Capital redemption reserve

(f) Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative effective portion
of gains or losses arising on changes in fair value of designated portion of
hedging instruments entered into for cash flow hedges. Such gains or losses
will be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period in which the
underlying hedged transaction occurs.

As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve is created when
company purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium.
A sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred
to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the
provisions of section 69 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(c) Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve
The Special Economic Zone (SEZ) re-investment reserve is created out of
the profit of eligible SEZ units in terms of the provisions of section 10AA(1)
(ii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961. The reserve will be utilised by the Company
for acquiring new assets for the purpose of its business as per the terms of
section 10AA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961.
(d) Retained earnings
This reserve represents undistributed accumulated earnings of the Company
as on the balance sheet date.
(e) Investment revaluation reserve
This reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses arising on the
revaluation of equity and debt instruments on the balance sheet date
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The reserves
accumulated will be reclassified to retained earnings and profit and loss
respectively, when such instruments are disposed.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As per our report of even date attached

For and on behalf of the Board

For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no:
101248W/W-100022

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and
Managing Director

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Samir Seksaria
CFO

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Mumbai, April 11, 2022
Standalone Financial Statements | 336

Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
Year ended
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING
ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for
doubtful trade receivables and advances (net)
Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 19)
Tax expense
Net gain on lease modification
Unrealised foreign exchange gain
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Net gain on disposal / fair valuation of investments
Interest income
Dividend income (including exchange impact)
Finance costs
Realised foreign exchange gain on proceeds from
liquidation of wholly owned subsidiary
Operating profit before working capital changes
Net change in
Inventories
Trade receivables
Billed
Unbilled
Loans and other financial assets
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

38,187

30,960

3,522
107

3,053
185

11,536
(2)
(119)
(25)
(186)
(2,555)
(3,554)
486
-

1,218
9,942
(89)
(20)
(19)
(193)
(2,383)
(2,211)
537
(5)

47,397

40,975

(12)

(3)

(4,761)
(644)
(152)

3,282
(572)
(54)

Other assets
Trade payables
Unearned and deferred revenue
Other financial liabilities
Other liabilities and provisions
Cash generated from operations
Taxes paid (net of refunds)
Net cash generated from operating activities

Year ended
March 31, 2022
747
2,120
412
968
388
46,463
(10,336)
36,127

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
(2,432)
(771)
246
(171)
1,127
41,627
(7,805)
33,822

(14,653)
(13,655)
(70,826)
(2,147)

(5,678)
(20,139)
(51,822)
(2,071)

(13)

(101)

(457)
-

(242)
(224)

11,201
18,560
69,451
4
29

4,617
16,892
49,333
31

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Bank deposits placed
Inter-corporate deposits placed
Purchase of investments
Payment for purchase of property, plant and
equipment
Payment including advances for acquiring right-ofuse assets
Payment for purchase of intangible assets
Payment towards subscription of shares in wholly
owned subsidiary
Proceeds from bank deposits
Proceeds from inter-corporate deposits
Proceeds from disposal / redemption of investments
Proceeds from sub-lease receivable
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and
equipment

Standalone Financial Statements | 337

Standalone Statement of Cash Flows

Proceeds from liquidation of wholly owned subsidiary
Interest received
Dividend received from subsidiaries
Net cash generated from / (used in) investing
activities

Year ended
March 31, 2022
2,594
3,554
3,642

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
12
2,605
2,211
(4,576)

(935)
(478)
(13,317)
(180)
162
(49)

(879)
(537)
(10,850)
(160)
160
(31)

(18,000)
(32,797)
6,972
1,112

(3,726)
(16,000)
(32,023)
(2,777)
3,852

113

37

8,197

1,112

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Repayment of lease liabilities
Interest paid
Dividend paid
Transfer of funds to buy-back escrow account
Transfer of funds from buy-back escrow account
Expenses for buy-back of equity shares (Refer note
6(n))
Tax on buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(n))
Buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 6(n))
Net cash used in financing activities
Net change in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the
year
Exchange difference on translation of foreign
currency cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Year ended
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021

809
7,388
-*
-*
-*
8,197

1,032
77
-*
-*
3
1,112

Components of cash and cash equivalents
Balances with banks
In current accounts
In deposit accounts
Cheques on hand
Cash on hand
Remittances in transit
*Represents values less than `0.50 crore.

NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Refer note 13(c) for amount spent during the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 on
construction / acquisition of any asset and other purposes relating to CSR activities.
As per our report of even date attached

For and on behalf of the Board

For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no:
101248W/W-100022

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and
Managing Director

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Samir Seksaria
CFO

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Mumbai, April 11, 2022
Standalone Financial Statements | 338

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
1)

Corporate information
Tata Consultancy Services Limited (referred to as “TCS Limited” or “the
Company”) provides IT services, consulting and business solutions and
has been partnering with many of the world’s largest businesses in their
transformation journeys. The Company offers a consulting-led, cognitive
powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services
and solutions. This is delivered through its unique Location-Independent
Agile delivery model recognised as a benchmark of excellence in software
development.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in
India. The address of its corporate office is TCS House, Raveline Street, Fort,
Mumbai - 400001. As at March 31, 2022, Tata Sons Private Limited, the
holding company owned 72.27% of the Company’s equity share capital.
The Board of Directors approved the standalone financial statements for the
year ended March 31, 2022 and authorised for issue on April 11, 2022.

2)

Statement of compliance
These standalone financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
the Indian Accounting Standards (referred to as “Ind AS”) as prescribed under
section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian
Accounting Standards) Rules as amended from time to time.

3)

Basis of preparation
These standalone financial statements have been prepared on historical cost
basis except for certain financial instruments and defined benefit plans which
are measured at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting
period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

given in exchange for goods and services. Fair value is the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. All assets and liabilities
have been classified as current and non-current as per the Company’s normal
operating cycle. Based on the nature of services rendered to customers and
time elapsed between deployment of resources and the realisation in cash
and cash equivalents of the consideration for such services rendered, the
Company has considered an operating cycle of 12 months.
The statement of cash flows have been prepared under indirect method,
whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-cash
nature, any deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts
or payments and items of income or expense associated with investing or
financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, investing and financing
activities of the Company are segregated. The Company considers all highly
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and
are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value to be cash equivalents.
These standalone financial statements have been prepared in Indian Rupee
(`) which is the functional currency of the Company. Foreign currency
transactions are recorded at exchange rates prevailing on the date of the
transaction. Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities
are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet dates
and exchange gains and losses arising on settlement and restatement are
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in foreign currencies are
not retranslated.
The significant accounting policies used in preparation of the standalone
financial statements have been discussed in the respective notes.
Standalone Financial Statements | 339

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
4)

Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of standalone financial statements in conformity with the
recognition and measurement principles of Ind AS requires management of
the Company to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported
balances of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent liabilities as at the
date of standalone financial statements and the reported amounts of income
and expenses for the periods presented.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the
estimates are revised and future periods are affected.
The Company uses the following critical accounting estimates in preparation
of its standalone financial statements:

(a) Revenue recognition
Revenue for fixed-price contracts is recognised using percentage-ofcompletion method. The Company uses judgement to estimate the future
cost-to-completion of the contracts which is used to determine degree of
completion of the performance obligation.
(b) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
The Company reviews the useful life of property, plant and equipment at
the end of each reporting period. This reassessment may result in change in
depreciation expense in future periods.
(c) Impairment of investments in subsidiaries
The Company reviews its carrying value of investments carried at cost (net of
impairment, if any) annually, or more frequently when there is indication for
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

impairment. If the recoverable amount is less than its carrying amount, the
impairment loss is accounted for in the statement of profit and loss.
(d) Fair value measurement of financial instruments
When the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in
the balance sheet cannot be measured based on quoted prices in active
markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the
Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs to these models are taken from
observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree
of judgement is required in establishing fair values. Judgements include
considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes
in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of
financial instruments.
(e) Provision for income tax and deferred tax assets
The Company uses estimates and judgements based on the relevant rulings in
the areas of allocation of revenue, costs, allowances and disallowances which is
exercised while determining the provision for income tax. A deferred tax asset
is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be
available against which the deductible temporary differences and tax losses can
be utilised. Accordingly, the Company exercises its judgement to reassess the
carrying amount of deferred tax assets at the end of each reporting period.
(f) Provisions and contingent liabilities
The Company estimates the provisions that have present obligations as
a result of past events and it is probable that outflow of resources will be
required to settle the obligations. These provisions are reviewed at the end of
each reporting period and are adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
Standalone Financial Statements | 340

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
The Company uses significant judgements to assess contingent liabilities.
Contingent liabilities are recognised when there is a possible obligation
arising from past events, the existence of which will be confirmed only by the
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not
wholly within the control of the Company or a present obligation that arises
from past events where it is either not probable that an outflow of resources
will be required to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount
cannot be made. Contingent assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the
standalone financial statements.

to extend the lease, or not to exercise the option to terminate the lease. The
Company revises the lease term if there is a change in the non-cancellable
period of a lease.
The discount rate is generally based on the incremental borrowing rate
specific to the lease being evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with similar
characteristics.
(i)

The Company has taken into account all the possible impacts of COVID-19 in
preparation of these standalone financial statements, including but not limited
to its assessment of, liquidity and going concern assumption, recoverable
values of its financial and non-financial assets, impact on revenue recognition
owing to changes in cost budgets of fixed price contracts, impact on leases
and impact on effectiveness of its hedges. The Company has carried out this
assessment based on available internal and external sources of information
upto the date of approval of these standalone financial statements and
believes that the impact of COVID-19 is not material to these standalone
financial statements and expects to recover the carrying amount of its assets.
The impact of COVID-19 on the standalone financial statements may differ
from that estimated as at the date of approval of these standalone financial
statements owing to the nature and duration of COVID-19.

(g) Employee benefits
The accounting of employee benefit plans in the nature of defined benefit
requires the Company to use assumptions. These assumptions have been
explained under employee benefits note.
(h) Leases
The Company evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to be a lease as per the
requirements of Ind AS 116. Identification of a lease requires significant
judgement. The Company uses significant judgement in assessing the lease
term (including anticipated renewals) and the applicable discount rate.
The Company determines the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a
lease, together with both periods covered by an option to extend the lease
if the Company is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and periods
covered by an option to terminate the lease if the Company is reasonably
certain not to exercise that option. In assessing whether the Company is
reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend a lease, or not to exercise
an option to terminate a lease, it considers all relevant facts and circumstances
that create an economic incentive for the Company to exercise the option
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Impact of COVID-19 (pandemic)

5)

Recent pronouncements
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments
to the existing standards under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
Rules as issued from time to time. On March 23, 2022, MCA amended the
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2022, applicable
from April 1, 2022, as below:
Standalone Financial Statements | 341

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Ind AS 103 – Reference to Conceptual Framework

Ind AS 109 – Annual Improvements to Ind AS (2021)

The amendments specify that to qualify for recognition as part of applying
the acquisition method, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
must meet the definitions of assets and liabilities in the Conceptual Framework
for Financial Reporting under Indian Accounting Standards (Conceptual
Framework) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India at the
acquisition date. These changes do not significantly change the requirements
of Ind AS 103. The Company does not expect the amendment to have any
significant impact in its financial statements.

The amendment clarifies which fees an entity includes when it applies the
‘10 percent’ test of Ind AS 109 in assessing whether to derecognise a financial
liability. The Company does not expect the amendment to have any significant
impact in its financial statements.
Ind AS 116 – Annual Improvements to Ind AS (2021)
The amendments remove the illustration of the reimbursement of leasehold
improvements by the lessor in order to resolve any potential confusion
regarding the treatment of lease incentives that might arise because of
how lease incentives were described in that illustration. The Company does
not expect the amendment to have any significant impact in its financial
statements.

Ind AS 16 – Proceeds before intended use
The amendments mainly prohibit an entity from deducting from the cost of
property, plant and equipment amounts received from selling items produced
while the company is preparing the asset for its intended use. Instead, an
entity will recognise such sales proceeds and related cost in profit or loss.
The Company does not expect the amendments to have any impact in its
recognition of its property, plant and equipment in its financial statements.
Ind AS 37 – Onerous Contracts - Costs of Fulfilling a Contract
The amendments specify that that the ‘cost of fulfilling’ a contract comprises
the ‘costs that relate directly to the contract’. Costs that relate directly to a
contract can either be incremental costs of fulfilling that contract (examples
would be direct labour, materials) or an allocation of other costs that relate
directly to fulfilling contracts. The amendment is essentially a clarification and
the Company does not expect the amendment to have any significant impact
in its financial statements.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

6)

Financial assets, financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets and
liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly
attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities
(other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value measured on initial
recognition of financial asset or financial liability.
The Company derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights
to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset
and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another
entity. The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the
Company’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired.
Standalone Financial Statements | 342

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Cash and cash equivalents
The Company considers all highly liquid investments, which are readily
convertible into known amounts of cash that are subject to an insignificant risk
of change in value, to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist
of balances with banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and usage.
Financial assets at amortised cost
Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost if these
financial assets are held within a business whose objective is to hold these
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of
the financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income if these financial assets are held within a business whose objective is
achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows on specified dates that are
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding
and selling financial assets.
The Company has made an irrevocable election to present subsequent
changes in the fair value of equity investments not held for trading in other
comprehensive income.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss unless they
are measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

income on initial recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable to the
acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
are immediately recognised in statement of profit and loss.
Investment in subsidiaries
Investment in subsidiaries are measured at cost less impairment loss, if any.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is a contract that evidences residual interest in the assets
of the company after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued
by the Company are recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue
cost.
Derivative accounting
•

Instruments in hedging relationship

		

The Company designates certain foreign exchange forward, currency
options and futures contracts as hedge instruments in respect of foreign
exchange risks. These hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.

		

The Company uses hedging instruments that are governed by the policies
of the Company which are approved by the Board of Directors. The
policies provide written principles on the use of such financial derivatives
consistent with the risk management strategy of the Company.
Standalone Financial Statements | 343

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
		

The hedge instruments are designated and documented as hedges at the
inception of the contract. The Company determines the existence of an
economic relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item
based on the currency, amount and timing of their respective cash flows.
The effectiveness of hedge instruments to reduce the risk associated
with the exposure being hedged is assessed and measured at inception
and on an ongoing basis. If the hedged future cash flows are no longer
expected to occur, then the amounts that have been accumulated in
other equity are immediately reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in
the statement of profit and loss.

		

The effective portion of change in the fair value of the designated
hedging instrument is recognised in the other comprehensive income and
accumulated under the heading cash flow hedging reserve.

		

The Company separates the intrinsic value and time value of an option
and designates as hedging instruments only the change in intrinsic value
of the option. The change in fair value of the intrinsic value and time
value of an option is recognised in the other comprehensive income
and accounted as a separate component of equity. Such amounts are
reclassified into the statement of profit and loss when the related hedged
items affect profit and loss.

		

Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires
or is sold, terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any
gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated
in equity till that time remains and is recognised in the statement of profit
and loss when the forecasted transaction ultimately affects profit and loss.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the statement of profit and
loss when the hedge becomes ineffective.
•
		

Instruments not in hedging relationship
The Company enters into contracts that are effective as hedges from an
economic perspective, but they do not qualify for hedge accounting. The
change in the fair value of such instrument is recognised in the statement
of profit and loss.

Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair value)
The Company assesses at each date of balance sheet whether a financial asset
or a group of financial assets is impaired.
Ind AS 109 requires expected credit losses to be measured through a loss
allowance. The Company recognises lifetime expected losses for all contract
assets and / or all trade receivables that do not constitute a financing
transaction. In determining the allowances for doubtful trade receivables, the
Company has used a practical expedient by computing the expected credit
loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision matrix. The provision
matrix takes into account historical credit loss experience and is adjusted for
forward looking information. The expected credit loss allowance is based on
the ageing of the receivables that are due and allowance rates used in the
provision matrix. For all other financial assets, expected credit losses are
measured at an amount equal to the 12-months expected credit losses or at
an amount equal to the life time expected credit losses if the credit risk on the
financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition.

Standalone Financial Statements | 344

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(a) Investments
Investments consist of the following:
Investments – Non-current

Investment in subsidiaries
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted)
Investments designated at fair value through
OCI
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted)
Taj Air Limited
Less: Impairment in value of investments

Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows:
(` crore)

As at
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021

2,405

2,405

19
(19)
2,405

19
(19)
2,405

Investments carried at fair value through
profit or loss
Mutual fund units (quoted)
Investments carried at fair value through OCI
Government bonds and securities (quoted)
Corporate bonds (quoted)
Investments carried at amortised cost
Certificate of deposits (quoted)
Commercial papers (quoted)
Treasury bills (quoted)

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021

884

4,068

25,667
1,242

23,670
450

99
381
989
29,262

136
28,324

Government bonds and securities includes bonds pledged with bank for credit facility
and with manager to the buy-back amounting to `3,560 crore and `1,650 crore as at
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

As at
March 31, 2021

Aggregate value of quoted investments

29,262

28,324

Aggregate value of unquoted investments (net
of impairment)

2,405

2,405

Aggregate market value of quoted investments

29,263

28,324

Aggregate value of impairment of investments

19

19

Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost is as follows:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

Investments – Current
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Certificate of deposits

99

-

Commercial papers

381

136

Treasury bills

990

-

Carrying value of investment in equity instruments is as follows:
(` crore)
In Numbers

Currency

Face value
per share

Investment in
subsidiaries

As at
As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021

Fully paid equity shares
(unquoted)
212,27,83,424

UYU

1 TCS Iberoamerica SA

461

15,75,300

INR

10 APTOnline Limited

-

461
-

1,300

EUR

- Tata Consultancy
Services Belgium

1

1

Standalone Financial Statements | 345

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(` crore)
In Numbers

Currency

66,000

Face value
per share

EUR

Investment in
subsidiaries

(` crore)

As at
As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021

1,000 Tata Consultancy
Services Netherlands BV

403

In Numbers

403

1,000

SEK

100 Tata Consultancy
Services Sverige AB

19

19

1

EUR

- Tata Consultancy
Services Deutschland
GmbH

2

2

20,000

USD

10 Tata America
International
Corporation

453

453

75,82,820

SGD

1 Tata Consultancy
Services Asia Pacific
Pte Ltd.

19

19

3,72,58,815

AUD

1 TCS FNS Pty Limited

212

212

10,00,001

GBP

1 Diligenta Limited

429

429

1,000

USD

- Tata Consultancy
Services Canada Inc.

-*

-*

100

CAD

70,653.61 Tata Consultancy
Services Canada Inc.

31

31

51,00,000

INR

10 C-Edge Technologies
Limited

5

5

8,90,000

INR

10 MP Online Limited

1

1

1,40,00,000

ZAR

1 Tata Consultancy
Services (Africa) (PTY)
Ltd.

66

66

Face value
per share

As at
As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021

Investment in
subsidiaries

18,89,005

INR

10 MahaOnline Limited

2

2

-

QAR

- Tata Consultancy
Services Qatar L.L.C.

2

2

10,00,000

INR

100 TCS e-Serve
International Limited

10

10

1,00,500

GBP

0.00001 Tata Consultancy
Services UK Limited

66

66

2,50,00,000

EUR

1 Tata Consultancy
Services Ireland Limited

224

224

10,00,000

INR

10 TCS Foundation

In Numbers

Currency

1,90,00,000

INR

-

-

2,405

2,405

(` crore)
As at
Equity instruments
As at
designated at fair value March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
through OCI
Fully paid equity shares
(unquoted)
10 Taj Air Limited
19
19
Less : Impairment in
(19)
(19)
value of investments
-

Face value
per share

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
1.
2.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Currency

Notes:
Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C. renamed as Tata Consultancy Services Qatar
L.L.C.
W12 Studios Limited renamed as Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited.
Standalone Financial Statements | 346

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value through
OCI is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended
Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Balance at the beginning of the year
916
882
Net gain / (loss) arising on revaluation of
(516)
51
investments other than equities carried at fair
value through other comprehensive income
Deferred tax relating to net gain / (loss) arising
180
(17)
on revaluation of investments other than
equities carried at fair value through other
comprehensive income
Balance at the end of the year
580
916

(b) Trade receivables - Billed

Trade receivables - Billed (unsecured) consist of the following:
Trade receivables - Billed – Non-current

Trade receivables - Billed
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
- Billed
Considered good

As at
March 31, 2022
932
(842)

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021
787
(732)

90

55

Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2022
is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars

Not
due

Outstanding for following periods from due date
of payment
Less than 6 months 1 - 2
6 months - 1 year years

Total

2 - 3 More than
years 3 years

Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables –
considered good

-

-

12

93

227

584

916

Undisputed trade receivables –
which have significant increase in
credit risk

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Undisputed trade receivables –
credit impaired

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Disputed trade receivables –
considered good

-

-

-

-

-

16

16

Disputed trade receivables – which
have significant increase in credit
risk

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Disputed trade receivables – credit
impaired

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

12

93

227

600

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade
receivables - Billed

932
(842)
90

Trade receivables - Unbilled

53
143

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 347

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2021
is as follows:

Trade receivables - Billed – Current
(` crore)

(` crore)

Particulars

Not
due

Outstanding for following periods from due date
of payment
Less than 6 months 1 - 2
6 months - 1 year years

Total
Trade receivables - Billed

2 - 3 More than
years 3 years

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
- Billed

Trade receivables - Billed
Undisputed trade receivables –
considered good

-

Undisputed trade receivables –
which have significant increase in
credit risk

-

-

17
-

154
-

86
-

514
-

771
-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Disputed trade receivables –
considered good

-

-

-

-

-

16

16

Disputed trade receivables – which
have significant increase in credit
risk

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Disputed trade receivables – credit
impaired

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

17

154

86

530

787

As at
March 31, 2021

30,010

25,361

(173)

(183)

29,837

25,178

Trade receivables - Billed

137

211

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
- Billed

(122)

(167)

Credit impaired

Undisputed trade receivables –
credit impaired

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade
receivables - Billed

Considered good

As at
March 31, 2022

15

44

29,852

25,222

Above balances of trade receivables - billed include balances with related parties
(Refer note 20).

(732)
55

Trade receivables - Unbilled

260
315

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 348

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2022
is as follows:

(` crore)

Particulars

Not
due

Outstanding for following periods from due date
of payment
Less than 6 months 1 - 2
6 months - 1 year years

Total

(` crore)
Particulars

23,985

4,069

903

594

224

Undisputed trade receivables –
which have significant increase in
credit risk

-

-

-

-

-

-

Undisputed trade receivables –
credit impaired

-

-

-

57

6

Disputed trade receivables –
considered good

-

-

-

-

Disputed trade receivables – which
have significant increase in credit
risk

-

-

-

Disputed trade receivables – credit
impaired

-

-

23,985

4,069

Less than 6 months 1 - 2
6 months - 1 year years

211 29,986

Total

2 - 3 More than
years 3 years

Undisputed trade receivables –
considered good

18,966

4,714

437

792

279

-

Undisputed trade receivables –
which have significant increase in
credit risk

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

67

130

Undisputed trade receivables –
credit impaired

-

4

81

12

74

33

204

-

24

24

Disputed trade receivables –
considered good

-

5

-

-

15

5

25

-

-

-

-

Disputed trade receivables – which
have significant increase in credit
risk

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

7

7

Disputed trade receivables – credit
impaired

-

-

-

-

-

7

7

903

651

230

18,966

4,723

518

804

368

309 30,147
(295)

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade
receivables - Billed

29,852
6,250
36,102
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Outstanding for following periods from due date
of payment

Trade receivables - Billed

Undisputed trade receivables –
considered good

Trade receivables - Unbilled

Not
due

2 - 3 More than
years 3 years

Trade receivables - Billed

Less: Allowance for doubtful trade
receivables - Billed

Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2021
is as follows:

148 25,336

193 25,572
(350)
25,222

Trade receivables - Unbilled

5,399
30,621
Standalone Financial Statements | 349

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(c) Cash and cash equivalents

(e) Loans

Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

In current accounts

809

1,032

In deposit accounts

7,388

77

-*

-*

Cash on hand

-*

-*

Remittances in transit

-*

3

8,197

1,112

Loans (unsecured) consist of the following:
Loans – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

Balances with banks

Cheques on hand

Considered good
Loans and advances to employees

Other balances with banks
Other balances with banks consist of the following:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022
Earmarked balances with banks
Short-term bank deposits

As at
March 31, 2021

195

182

5,300

1,848

5,495

2,030

Earmarked balances with banks primarily relate to margin money for purchase of
investments, margin money for derivative contracts, unclaimed dividends and balance in
escrow account for buy-back of equity shares.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

8

2

8

2

As at
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021

5,386
267

10,291
195

22
(22)

15
(15)

5,653

10,486

Loans – Current

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
(d)

As at
March 31, 2021

Considered good
Inter-corporate deposits
Loans and advances to employees
Credit impaired
Loans and advances to employees
Less: Allowance on loans and advances to
employees

Inter-corporate deposits placed with financial institutions yield fixed interest rate.

Standalone Financial Statements | 350

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(f) Other financial assets

(g)

Other financial assets consist of the following:
Other financial assets – Non-current

Security deposits
Others

As at
March 31, 2022
613
13
626

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021
632
13
645

As at
March 31, 2022
161
388
597
286
1,432

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021
143
495
566
159
1,363

Other financial assets – Current

Security deposits
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative assets
Interest receivable
Others

Dues of small enterprises and micro enterprises
The disclosure pursuant to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act,
2006, (MSMED Act) for dues to micro enterprises and small enterprises as at
March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 is as under:
As at
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021

-

-

Amount of interest paid in terms of section
16 of the MSMED Act, 2006, along with
the amount of the payment made to the
supplier beyond the appointed day during each
accounting year

33

39

Amount of interest due and payable for the
period of delay in making payment (which
has been paid but beyond the appointed day
during the year) but without adding the interest
specified under the MSMED Act, 2006

-

-

Amount of interest accrued and remaining
unpaid

-

-

Amount of further interest remaining due and
payable even in the succeeding years, until
such date when the interest dues as above
are actually paid to the small enterprise, for
the purpose of disallowance as a deductible
expenditure under section 23 of MSMED Act,
2006*

-

-

Dues remaining unpaid to any supplier
Principal
Interest on the above

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 351

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(h) Trade payables
Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars

Trade payables
MSME*
Others
Disputed dues - MSME*
Disputed dues - Others
Accrued expenses

Not
due

2,673
2,673

Outstanding for following periods from due
date of payment
Less than
1-2
2-3
More than
1 year
years
years
3 years
2,541
2,541

46
46

27
27

80
32
112

5,367
32
5,399
4,683
10,082

(` crore)

Trade payables
MSME*
Others
Disputed dues - MSME*
Disputed dues - Others
Accrued expenses

1,591
1,591

Outstanding for following periods from due
date of payment
1-2
2-3
More than
Less than
1 year
years
years
3 years
1,884
1,884

153
153

16
16

Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
Other financial liabilities – Non-current

Capital creditors
Others

Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2021 is as follows:
Not
due

Other financial liabilities

Total

*MSME as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.

Particulars

(i)

Total

62
32
94

3,706
32
3,738
4,224
7,962

As at
March 31, 2022
289
229
518

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021
228
228

Others include advance taxes paid of `226 crore and `226 crore as at March 31,
2022 and 2021, respectively, by the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited (merged with the
Company) which, on refund by tax authorities is payable to the seller.
Other financial liabilities – Current

Accrued payroll
Unclaimed dividends
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative liabilities
Capital creditors
Liabilities towards customer contracts
Others

As at
March 31, 2022
3,914
46
128
723
972
43
5,826

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021
3,029
50
92
347
860
95
4,473

*MSME as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 352

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(j)

Financial instruments by category
The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2022 is as
follows:

Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Bank deposits
Earmarked balances with banks
Investments (other than in subsidiary)
Trade receivables
Billed
Unbilled
Loans
Other financial assets
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities

Fair value
Fair value
Derivative
Derivative
through through other instruments instruments
profit or comprehensive in hedging not in hedging
loss
income
relationship relationship

Amortised
cost

(` crore)
Total
carrying
value

884

26,909

-

-

8,197
5,300
195
1,469

8,197
5,300
195
29,262

884

26,909

124
124

264
264

29,942
6,303
5,661
1,670
58,737

29,942
6,303
5,661
2,058
86,918

-

-

22
22

106
106

10,082
5,855
6,216
22,153

10,082
5,855
6,344
22,281

Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `5,386 crore, with original maturity period
within 10 months.

The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2021 is as
follows:
Fair value
through
profit or
loss
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Bank deposits
Earmarked balances with banks
Investments (other than in subsidiary)
Trade receivables
Billed
Unbilled
Loans
Other financial assets
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities

Fair value
Derivative
Derivative
through other instruments instruments
comprehensive in hedging not in hedging
income
relationship relationship

Amortised
cost

(` crore)
Total
carrying
value

4,068

24,120

-

-

1,112
1,848
182
136

1,112
1,848
182
28,324

4,068

24,120

163
163

332
332

25,277
5,659
10,488
1,513
46,215

25,277
5,659
10,488
2,008
74,898

-

-

2
2

90
90

7,962
5,912
4,609
18,483

7,962
5,912
4,701
18,575

Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `10,291 crore, with original maturity period
within 9 months.
Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans and trade
payables as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, approximate the fair value due to their nature.
Carrying amounts of bank deposits, earmarked balances with banks, other financial
assets and other financial liabilities which are subsequently measured at amortised cost
also approximate the fair value due to their nature in each of the periods presented. Fair
value measurement of lease liabilities is not required. Fair value of investments carried
at amortised cost is `1,470 crore and `136 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 353

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(k) Fair value hierarchy
The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are
used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable and
consists of the following three levels:
•

Level 1 - Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities.

•

Level 2 - Inputs are other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that
are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or
indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).

•

Level 3 - Inputs are not based on observable market data (unobservable
inputs). Fair values are determined in whole or in part using a valuation
model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from
observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are
they based on available market data.

The cost of unquoted investments included in Level 3 of fair value hierarchy
approximate their fair value because there is a wide range of possible fair value
measurements and the cost represents estimate of fair value within that range.
The following table summarises financial assets and liabilities measured at fair
value on a recurring basis and financial assets that are not measured at fair
value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosures are required):
As at March 31, 2022
Financial assets
Mutual fund units
Equity shares
Government bonds and securities
Corporate bonds
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Level 1
884
25,667
1,242

Level 2
-

Level 3
-

(` crore)
Total
884
25,667
1,242

Level 1
99
381
990
-

Level 2
388

(` crore)
Total
99
381
990
388

29,263

388

-

29,651

-

128

-

128

-

128

-

128

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

4,068

-

-

4,068

-

-

-

-

23,670

-

-

23,670

Corporate bonds

450

-

-

450

Commercial papers

136

-

-

136

-

495

-

495

28,324

495

-

28,819

-

92

-

92

-

92

-

92

As at March 31, 2022
Certificate of deposits
Commercial papers
Treasury bills
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative
assets
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative
liabilities

Level 3
-

(` crore)
As at March 31, 2021
Financial assets
Mutual fund units
Equity shares
Government bonds and securities

Fair value of foreign exchange derivative
assets
Financial liabilities
Fair value of foreign exchange derivative
liabilities

Standalone Financial Statements | 354

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(l)

Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity

The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash
flow hedges is as follows:

The Company’s revenue is denominated in various foreign currencies. Given
the nature of the business, a large portion of the costs are denominated in
Indian Rupee. This exposes the Company to currency fluctuations.
The Board of Directors has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC)
to frame, implement and monitor the risk management plan of the Company
which inter-alia covers risks arising out of exposure to foreign currency
fluctuations. Under the guidance and framework provided by the RMC, the
Company uses various derivative instruments such as foreign exchange
forward, currency options and futures contracts in which the counter party is
generally a bank.
The following are outstanding currency options contracts, which have been
designated as cash flow hedges:
Foreign currency

As at March 31, 2022

As at March 31, 2021

No. of
contracts

Notional
amount of
contracts
(In million)

Fair value
(` crore)

US Dollar

63

1,635

Great Britain Pound

41

338

Euro

53

Australian Dollar
Canadian Dollar

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

No. of
contracts

Notional
amount of
contracts
(In million)

Fair value
(` crore)

44

63

1,615

51

55

64

330

14

382

25

60

346

78

30

202

(21)

38

206

16

25

137

(1)

23

114

2

Balance at the beginning of the year
(Gain) / loss transferred to profit and
loss on occurrence of forecasted hedge
transactions
Deferred tax on (gain) / loss transferred to
profit and loss on occurrence of forecasted
hedge transactions
Change in the fair value of effective portion
of cash flow hedges
Deferred tax on change in the fair value of
effective portion of cash flow hedges
Balance at the end of the year

(` crore)
Year ended
Year ended
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Intrinsic value Time value Intrinsic value Time value
56
(27)
45
(68)
(636)
525
(341)
530

139

(122)

73

(125)

599

(559)

355

(477)

(131)

130

(76)

113

27

(53)

56

(27)

The Company has entered into derivative instruments not in hedging relationship by
way of foreign exchange forward, currency options and futures contracts. As at
March 31, 2022 and 2021, the notional amount of outstanding contracts aggregated
to `46,392 crore and `37,615 crore, respectively, and the respective fair value of these
contracts have a net gain of `158 crore and `242 crore.
Exchange gain of `645 crore and `490 crore on foreign exchange forward, currency
options and futures contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting have been
recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Standalone Financial Statements | 355

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Net foreign exchange gain include gain of `111 crore and loss of `189 crore
transferred from cash flow hedging reserve for the years ended March 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively.
Net loss on derivative instruments of `26 crore recognised in cash flow hedging reserve
as at March 31, 2022, is expected to be transferred to the statement of profit and
loss by March 31, 2023. The maximum period over which the exposure to cash flow
variability has been hedged is through calendar year 2022.
Following table summarises approximate gain / (loss) on the Company’s other
comprehensive income on account of appreciation / depreciation of the underlying
foreign currencies:

Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial
instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Such changes
in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in the foreign
currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market
changes. The Company’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of
foreign currency exchange rate risk.
•
		

The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential
impact on the statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive
income and equity, where any transaction references more than one
currency or where assets / liabilities are denominated in a currency other
than the functional currency of the Company.

		

Considering the countries and economic environment in which the
Company operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from
fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries.

		

The Company, as per its risk management policy, uses derivative
instruments primarily to hedge foreign exchange. Further, any movement
in the functional currency of the various operations of the Company
against major foreign currencies may impact the Company’s revenue in
international business.

		

The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations
by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It hedges a part of
these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk
management policies.

		

The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the
net foreign exchange rate exposure and a simultaneous parallel foreign

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

10% Appreciation of the underlying foreign
currencies

(387)

(306)

10% Depreciation of the underlying foreign
currencies

2,034

1,906

(m) Financial risk management
The Company is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which may adversely
impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Company has a risk
management policy which covers risks associated with the financial assets and
liabilities. The risk management policy is approved by the Board of Directors.
The focus of the risk management committee is to assess the unpredictability
of the financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse effects on the
financial performance of the Company.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Foreign currency exchange rate risk

Standalone Financial Statements | 356

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the functional
currency of the Company.
		

		

The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures
of the Company as of the date of balance sheet which could affect the
statements of profit and loss and other comprehensive income and equity.
Further the exposure as indicated below is mitigated by some of the
derivative contracts entered into by the Company as disclosed in note 6(l).
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign
currency exposure as at March 31, 2022:
Net financial assets
Net financial liabilities

USD
515
(8,981)

EUR

89
(513)

GBP
147
(1,403)

(` crore)
Others
1,709
(1,049)

		

10% appreciation / depreciation of the functional currency of the
Company with respect to various foreign currencies would result in
increase / decrease in the Company’s profit before taxes by approximately
`949 crore for the year ended March 31, 2022.

		

The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign
currency exposure as at March 31, 2021:

Net financial assets
Net financial liabilities

		

USD
3,981
(3,053)

EUR

(9)
(564)

GBP
264
(608)

(` crore)
Others
1,390
(774)

10% appreciation / depreciation of the functional currency of the
Company with respect to various foreign currencies would result in
increase / decrease in the Company’s profit before taxes by approximately
`63 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

•
		

Interest rate risk
The Company’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing
investments. Hence, the Company is not significantly exposed to interest
rate risk.

Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay
or service debt according to the contractual terms or obligations. Credit risk
encompasses of both, the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration
of creditworthiness as well as concentration of risks. Credit risk is controlled
by analysing credit limits and creditworthiness of customers on a continuous
basis to whom the credit has been granted after obtaining necessary approvals
for credit.
Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk
principally consist of trade receivables, loans, investments, derivative financial
instruments, cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits and other financial
assets. Inter-corporate deposits of `5,386 crore are with a financial institution
having a high credit-rating assigned by credit-rating agencies. Bank deposits
include an amount of `4,800 crore held with three Indian banks having high
credit rating which is individually in excess of 10% or more of the Company’s
total bank deposits as at March 31, 2022. None of the other financial
instruments of the Company result in material concentration of credit risk.
•
		

Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets and contract assets represents
the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk
was `90,388 crore and `77,949 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively, being the total of the carrying amount of balances with
banks, bank deposits, investments excluding equity and preference
investments, trade receivables, loans, contract assets and other financial
assets.
Standalone Financial Statements | 357

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
		

•
		

The Company’s exposure to customers is diversified and no single
customer contributes to more than 10% of outstanding trade receivable
and contract assets as at March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.

		

Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial
obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management is to maintain
sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per
requirements. The Company consistently generated sufficient cash flows
from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities
as and when they fall due.

		

The tables below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of
significant financial liabilities as at:

Geographic concentration of credit risk
Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of
allowances) and contract assets is as follows:
As at March 31, 2022

As at March 31, 2021

Gross%

Gross%

Net%

Net%

United States of America

52.43

53.78

48.67

49.97

India

12.73

10.68

15.32

13.27

United Kingdom

16.47

16.84

17.05

17.42

Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of
allowances) and contract assets is allocated based on the location of the
customers.
		

Liquidity risk

The allowance for lifetime expected credit loss on trade receivables for
the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was `96 crore and `176
crore, respectively. The reconciliation of allowance for doubtful trade
receivables is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

1,082

938

Change during the year

96

176

Bad debts written off

(39)

(30)

Translation Exchange difference

(2)

(2)

Balance at the end of the year

1,137

1,082

Balance at the beginning of the year

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

March 31, 2022
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
Borrowings
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities

March 31, 2021
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade payables
Lease liabilities
Other financial liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities

Due in
1st year
10,082
1,345
5,721
17,148
128
17,276
Due in
1st year
7,962
1,239
4,381
13,582
92
13,674

Due in Due in 3rd Due after
2nd year to 5th year 5th year
1,186
294
1,480
1,480

2,460
228
2,688
2,688

2,732
5
2,737
2,737

Due in Due in 3rd Due after
2nd year to 5th year 5th year
1,157
1,157
1,157

2,590
228
2,818
2,818

3,098
3,098
3,098

(` crore)
Total
10,082
7,723
6,248
24,053
128
24,181
(` crore)
Total
7,962
8,084
4,609
20,655
92
20,747

Standalone Financial Statements | 358

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(n) Equity instruments

The Board of Directors at its meeting held on January 12, 2022, approved a
proposal to buy-back upto 4,00,00,000 equity shares of the Company for an
aggregate amount not exceeding `18,000 crore, being 1.08% of the total paid
up equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share. The shareholders approved
the same on February 12, 2022, by way of a special resolution through postal
ballot. A Letter of Offer was made to all eligible shareholders. The Company
bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares out of the shares that were tendered
by eligible shareholders and extinguished the equity shares on March 29,
2022. Capital redemption reserve was created to the extent of share capital
extinguished (`4 crore). The excess cost of buy-back of `18,049 crore
(including `49 crore towards transaction cost of buy-back) over par value of
shares and corresponding tax on buy-back of `4,192 crore were offset from
retained earnings.

The authorised, issued, subscribed and fully paid up share capital consist of the
following:

Authorised
460,05,00,000 equity shares of `1 each
(March 31, 2021: 460,05,00,000 equity shares
of `1 each)
105,02,50,000 preference shares of `1 each
(March 31, 2021: 105,02,50,000 preference
shares of `1 each)
Issued, Subscribed and Fully paid up
365,90,51,373 equity shares of `1 each
(March 31, 2021: 369,90,51,373 equity shares
of `1 each)

As at
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021

460

460

105

105

565

565

366

370

366

370

The Company’s objective for capital management is to maximise shareholder
value, safeguard business continuity and support the growth of the Company.
The Company determines the capital requirement based on annual operating
plans and long-term and other strategic investment plans. The funding
requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated. The
Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

I.

Reconciliation of number of shares
As at March 31, 2022

As at March 31, 2021

Number of
shares

Number of
shares

Amount
(` crore)

Amount
(` crore)

Equity shares
Opening balance
Shares extinguished on buy-back
Closing balance

II.

369,90,51,373

370

375,23,84,706

375

(4,00,00,000)

(4)

(5,33,33,333)

(5)

365,90,51,373

366

369,90,51,373

370

Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares
The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of `1 each.
Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per share held and carry a right to
dividend. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the
Standalone Financial Statements | 359

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except
in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders
are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution
of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.

IV. Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the
aggregate shares in the Company

Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding
company

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2021

Holding company
264

267

•
		

7,220 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 7,220
equity shares) are held by Tata Industries Limited*

-

-

10,14,172 equity shares (March 31, 2021:
10,23,685 equity shares) are held by Tata
Investment Corporation Limited*

-

-

46,798 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 46,798
equity shares) are held by Tata Steel Limited*

-

-

766 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 766 equity
shares) are held by The Tata Power Company
Limited*

-

-

264

267

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

266,91,25,829

72.27%

72.16%

Equity shares movement during the 5 years preceding March 31, 2022

Subsidiaries and Associates of Holding company

*Equity shares having value less than `0.50 crore.

264,43,17,117

% of shareholding

V.

Equity shares
264,43,17,117 equity shares (March 31, 2021:
266,91,25,829 equity shares) are held by Tata
Sons Private Limited

As at
March 31, 2021

Equity shares

III. Shares held by Holding company, its Subsidiaries and Associates
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2022

•

Equity shares issued as bonus
The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up bonus
shares by capitalisation of profits transferred from retained earnings
amounting to `86 crore and capital redemption reserve amounting to
`106 crore in three month period ended June 30, 2018, pursuant to
an ordinary resolution passed after taking the consent of shareholders
through postal ballot.
Equity shares extinguished on buy-back

		

The Company bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares for an aggregate
amount of `18,000 crore being 1.08% of the total paid up equity share
capital at `4,500 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were
extinguished on March 29, 2022.

		

The Company bought back 5,33,33,333 equity shares for an aggregate
amount of `16,000 crore being 1.42% of the total paid up equity share
capital at `3,000 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were
extinguished on January 6, 2021.
Standalone Financial Statements | 360

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
		

		

The Company bought back 7,61,90,476 equity shares for an aggregate
amount of `16,000 crore being 1.99% of the total paid up equity share
capital at `2,100 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were
extinguished on September 26, 2018.
The Company bought back 5,61,40,350 equity shares for an aggregate
amount of `16,000 crore being 2.85% of the total paid up equity share
capital at `2,850 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were
extinguished on June 7, 2017.

VI. Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
Promoter name

Shares held by promoters
As at
March 31, 2022
No. of shares

% of
total
shares

As at
March 31, 2021
No. of shares

% of
total
shares

%
Change
during
the
year

Tata Sons Private Limited

264,43,17,117

72.27%

266,91,25,829

72.16%

0.11%

Total

264,43,17,117

72.27%

266,91,25,829

72.16%

0.11%

Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2021 is as follows:
Promoter name

Shares held by promoters
As at
March 31, 2021
No. of shares

% of
total
shares

As at
March 31, 2020
No. of shares

% of
total
shares

%
Change
during
the
year

Tata Sons Private Limited

266,91,25,829

72.16%

270,24,50,947

72.02%

0.14%

Total

266,91,25,829

72.16%

270,24,50,947

72.02%

0.14%

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

7)

Leases
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to
control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for
consideration.
Company as a lessee
The Company accounts for each lease component within the contract as a
lease separately from non-lease components of the contract and allocates
the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of
the relative standalone price of the lease component and the aggregate
standalone price of the non-lease components.
The Company recognises right-of-use asset representing its right to use the
underlying asset for the lease term at the lease commencement date. The
cost of the right-of-use asset measured at inception shall comprise of the
amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any lease
payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives
received, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to be
incurred by the lessee in dismantling and removing the underlying asset or
restoring the underlying asset or site on which it is located. The right-of-use
asset is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation,
accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted for any remeasurement of
the lease liability. The right-of-use asset is depreciated using the
straight-line method from the commencement date over the shorter of lease
term or useful life of right-of-use asset. The estimated useful lives of
right-of-use assets are determined on the same basis as those of property,
plant and equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment whenever
there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
The Company measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease
payments that are not paid at the commencement date of the lease. The lease
Standalone Financial Statements | 361

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that
rate can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the
Company uses incremental borrowing rate. For leases with reasonably similar
characteristics, the Company, on a lease-by-lease basis, may adopt either the
incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease or the incremental borrowing
rate for the portfolio as a whole. The lease payments shall include fixed
payments, variable lease payments, residual value guarantees, exercise price
of a purchase option where the Company is reasonably certain to exercise
that option and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease
term reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate the lease. The lease
liability is subsequently remeasured by increasing the carrying amount to
reflect interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect
the lease payments made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any
reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed
lease payments. The Company recognises the amount of the re-measurement
of lease liability due to modification as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset
and statement of profit and loss depending upon the nature of modification.
Where the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero
and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability,
the Company recognises any remaining amount of the re-measurement in
statement of profit and loss.
The Company has elected not to apply the requirements of Ind AS 116 Leases
to short-term leases of all assets that have a lease term of 12 months or less
and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The lease payments
associated with these leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.
Company as a lessor
At the inception of the lease the Company classifies each of its leases as
either an operating lease or a finance lease. The Company recognises lease
payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

over the lease term. In case of a finance lease, finance income is recognised
over the lease term based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate
of return on the lessor’s net investment in the lease. When the Company is
an intermediate lessor it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the
sub-lease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with
reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with
reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to
which the Company applies the exemption described above, then it classifies
the sub-lease as an operating lease.
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Company
applies Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with customers to allocate the
consideration in the contract.
The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Company is as follows:

Leasehold land
Buildings
Leasehold improvement
Computer equipment
Software licences
Vehicles*

Additions
for the year ended
March 31, 2022
100
779
3
145

(` crore)
Net carrying
amount as at
March 31, 2022
774
4,860
4
66
133

1,027

5,837

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Standalone Financial Statements | 362

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Interest on lease liabilities is `451 crore and `450 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

(` crore)
Additions
for the year ended
March 31, 2021
Leasehold land
Buildings

Net carrying
amount as at
March 31, 2021

-

682

840

5,083

Leasehold improvement

6

6

Computer equipment

81

79

Software licences

26

25

Vehicles

1

1

954

5,876

The Company incurred `162 crore and `189 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards expenses relating to
short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
The total cash outflow for leases is `1,561 crore and `1,619 crore for the
years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, including cash outflow
for short term and low value leases.
The Company has lease term extension options that are not reflected in the
measurement of lease liabilities. The present value of future cash outflows for
such extension periods is `722 crore and `660 crore as at March 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively.
Lease contracts entered by the Company majorly pertains for buildings taken
on lease to conduct its business in the ordinary course. The Company does
not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per
the contract.

Depreciation on right-of-use assets is as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Leasehold land

Year ended
March 31, 2021

8)

9

8

991

995

Leasehold improvement

3

3

Computer equipment

15

3

Software licences

38

1

Buildings

Vehicles

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

1

1

1,057

1,011

Non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities

(a) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost comprising of purchase price
and any initial directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to its working
condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation (other than
freehold land) and impairment loss, if any.
Depreciation is provided for property, plant and equipment on a straight-line
basis so as to expense the cost less residual value over their estimated useful
lives based on a technical evaluation. The estimated useful lives and residual
Standalone Financial Statements | 363

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any
change in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction
and installation are complete and the asset is ready for its intended use.

The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:

Property, plant and equipment with finite life are evaluated for recoverability
whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be
recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher
of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an
individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are
largely independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable
amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset
belongs.

Type of asset

Useful lives

Buildings

20 years

Leasehold improvements

Lease term

Plant and equipment

10 years

Computer equipment

4 years

Vehicles

4 years

Office equipment

2-5 years

Electrical installations

4-10 years

Furniture and fixtures

5 years

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than
its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to
its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of
profit and loss.

Standalone Financial Statements | 364

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:

Cost as at April 1, 2021
Additions
Disposals
Cost as at March 31, 2022
Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2021
Depreciation
Disposals
Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 2022
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2022
Capital work-in-progress*
Total

Freehold
land
323
323
323

Buildings
7,688
51
(2)
7,737
(2,897)
(391)
2
(3,286)
4,451

Leasehold
improvements
1,817
86
(18)
1,885
(1,108)
(131)
18
(1,221)
664

Plant and
equipment
718
35
(1)
752
(293)
(73)
(366)
386

Computer
equipment
8,781
1,606
(462)
9,925
(6,349)
(1,172)
460
(7,061)
2,864

Vehicles
36
(1)
35
(31)
(3)
1
(33)
2

Office
equipment
2,302
160
(67)
2,395
(2,001)
(151)
67
(2,085)
310

Electrical
installations
1,883
33
(44)
1,872
(1,270)
(140)
43
(1,367)
505

Furniture
and fixtures
1,509
41
(38)
1,512
(1,287)
(99)
38
(1,348)
164

Office
equipment
2,263
77
(38)
2,302
(1,868)
(170)
37
(2,001)
301

Electrical
installations
1,882
28
(27)
1,883
(1,152)
(143)
25
(1,270)
613

Furniture
and fixtures
1,510
29
(30)
1,509
(1,202)
(115)
30
(1,287)
222

(` crore)
Total
25,057
2,012
(633)
26,436
(15,236)
(2,160)
629
(16,767)
9,669
1,146
10,815

*`2,012 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2022.

Cost as at April 1, 2020
Additions
Disposals
Cost as at March 31, 2021
Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2020
Depreciation
Disposals
Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 2021
Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2021
Capital work-in-progress*
Total

Freehold
land
323
323
323

Buildings
7,628
71
(11)
7,688
(2,518)
(387)
8
(2,897)
4,791

Leasehold
improvements
1,824
53
(60)
1,817
(1,042)
(126)
60
(1,108)
709

Plant and
equipment
667
51
718
(224)
(69)
(293)
425

Computer
equipment
7,273
1,610
(102)
8,781
(5,536)
(909)
96
(6,349)
2,432

Vehicles
39
2
(5)
36
(32)
(4)
5
(31)
5

(` crore)
Total
23,409
1,921
(273)
25,057
(13,574)
(1,923)
261
(15,236)
9,821
861
10,682

*`1,921 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2021.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 365

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Capital work-in-progress
•
		

Capital work-in-progress ageing
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:

(` crore)

Capital work-in-progress
Projects in progress

		

Total
1,146
1,146

Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2021 is as follows:

(` crore)

Capital work-in-progress
Projects in progress

•

Amount in capital work-in-progress for a period of
Less than
1-2
2-3
More than
1 year
years
years
3 years
639
97
37
373
639
97
37
373

Amount in capital work-in-progress for a period of
1-2
2-3
More than
Less than
1 year
years
years
3 years
423
60
41
337
423
60
41
337

Intangible assets with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there
is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. If any
such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less
cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis
unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of
those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined
for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than
its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to
its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of
profit and loss.
Intangible assets consist of the following:
(` crore)

Total
861
861

Project execution plans are modulated basis capacity requirement
assessment on an annual basis and all the projects are executed as per
rolling annual plan.

(b) Intangible assets
Intangible assets purchased are measured at cost as at the date of acquisition,
as applicable, less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment, if
any.

Rights under licensing
agreement and software licences
Cost as at April 1, 2021

580

Additions

961

Disposals / Derecognised

(11)

Cost as at March 31, 2022

1,530

Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2021

(218)

Amortisation

(305)

Disposals / Derecognised

11

Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2021

(512)

Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2022

1,018

Intangible assets consist of rights under licensing agreement and software
licences which are amortised over licence period which equates the economic
useful life ranging between 2-5 years on a straight-line basis over the period
of its economic useful life.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 366

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(` crore)
Rights under licensing
agreement and software licences
Cost as at April 1, 2020

401

Additions

242

Disposals / Derecognised

(63)

Cost as at March 31, 2021

580

Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2020

(162)

Amortisation

(119)
63

Disposals / Derecognised
Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2021

(218)

Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2021

362

(c) Other assets
Other assets consist of the following:
Other assets – Non-current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Capital advances

75

65

Advances to related parties

23

33

Contract assets

136

120

Prepaid expenses

1,197

527

81

137

Considered good

Contract fulfillment costs

The estimated amortisation for years subsequent to March 31, 2022 is as
follows:
Year ending March 31,
2023
2024
2025
2026

(` crore)
Amortisation expense
421
375
203
19
1,018

Others

285

391

1,797

1,273

Advances to related parties, considered good,
comprise:
Voltas Limited

-*

2

Tata Realty and Infrastructure Ltd

-*

-*

Tata Projects Limited

23

30

Titan Engineering and Automation Limited

-*

-*

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 367

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Other assets – Current
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

117

83

Considered good
Advance to suppliers
Advance to related parties

8

10

Contract assets

3,334

2,931

Prepaid expenses

2,735

4,260

Prepaid rent

7

6

Contract fulfillment costs

616

534

Indirect taxes recoverable

1,001

1,172

214

221

Advance to suppliers

2

3

Other advances

2

2

Others
Considered doubtful

Less: Allowance on doubtful assets

(4)

(5)

8,032

9,217

The Titan Company Limited

-

2

Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited

1

1

Tata Sons Private Limited

7

7

Advance to related parties, considered good
comprise:

Contract fulfillment costs of `564 crore and `358 crore for the years
ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, have been amortised in the
standalone statement of profit and loss. Refer note 10 for the changes in
contract asset.
(d) Inventories
Inventories consists of a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components,
b) Work-in-progress, c) Stores and spare parts and d) Finished goods.
Inventories are carried at lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of
raw materials, sub-assemblies and components is determined on a weighted
average basis. Cost of finished goods produced or purchased by the Company
includes direct material and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing
overheads.
Inventories consist of the following:
(` crore)

Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components
Finished goods and work-in-progress

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

16

7

3

-*

19

7

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Non-current – Others includes advance of `271 crore and `369 crore
towards acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at March 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 368

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(e) Other liabilities
Other liabilities consist of the following:
Other liabilities – Current

9)

Other equity
Other equity consist of the following:
(` crore)

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

473

156

Indirect taxes payable and other statutory
liabilities

2,271

2,537

Tax liability on buy-back of equity shares*

4,192

-

97

27

7,033

2,720

Advance received from customers

Others

*Refer note 6(n).
(f) Provisions
Provisions consist of the following:
Provisions – Current

Provision for foreseeable loss
Other provisions

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

As at
March 31, 2021

-

-

Capital redemption reserve
Opening balance

13

8

Transfer from retained earnings

4

5

17

13

Opening balance

2,538

1,594

Transfer from retained earnings

9,407

5,058

Transfer to retained earnings

(4,658)

(4,114)

7,287

2,538

Opening balance

70,928

71,532

Profit for the year

38,187

30,960

141

(13)

Special Economic Zone re-investment
reserve

Retained earnings
(` crore)

Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 19)

Capital reserve*

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

1,249

1,211

125

127

3

12

1,377

1,350

Remeasurement of defined employee benefit
plans

(49)

(31)

Tax on buy-back of equity shares1

(4,192)

(3,726)

Buy-back of equity shares1

(17,996)

(15,995)

4,658

4,114

91,677

86,841

Expenses for buy-back of equity shares1

Transfer from Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve

Standalone Financial Statements | 369

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

13,317

10,850

Less: Appropriations
Dividend on equity shares

4

5

9,407

5,058

68,949

70,928

Opening balance

916

882

Change during the year (net)

(336)

34

580

916

Opening balance

29

(23)

Change during the year (net)

(55)

52

(26)

29

76,807

74,424

Transfer to capital redemption reserve1
Transfer to Special Economic Zone
re-investment reserve

Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or
services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration which the
Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
•

Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on
output basis measured by units delivered, efforts expended, number of
transactions processed, etc.

•

Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services
contracts where the Company is standing ready to provide services is
recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight-lined
over the period of performance.

•

In respect of other fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised using
percentage-of-completion method (‘POC method’) of accounting
with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of
the performance obligation. The contract costs used in computing the
revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.

•

Revenue from the sale of distinct internally developed software and
manufactured systems and third party software is recognised upfront
at the point in time when the system / software is delivered to the
customer. In cases where implementation and / or customisation services
rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services
and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and
revenue is recognised over time on a POC method.

•

Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware is recognised at
the point in time when control is transferred to the customer.

•

The solutions offered by the Company may include supply of third-party
equipment or software. In such cases, revenue for supply of such third
party products are recorded at gross or net basis depending on whether

Investment revaluation reserve

Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note 6(l))

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Refer Note 6(n).

1

10) Revenue recognition
The Company earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting
and business solutions. The Company offers a consulting-led, cognitive
powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and
solutions.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 370

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
the Company is acting as the principal or as an agent of the customer.
The Company recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration
when it is acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it
is acting as an agent.
Revenue is measured based on the transaction price, which is the
consideration, adjusted for volume discounts, service level credits,
performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in
the contract with the customer. Revenue also excludes taxes collected from
customers.
The Company’s contracts with customers could include promises to transfer
multiple products and services to a customer. The Company assesses the
products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance
obligations in the contract. Identification of distinct performance obligation
involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the
customer to benefit independently from such deliverables.
Judgement is also required to determine the transaction price for the
contract and to ascribe the transaction price to each distinct performance
obligation. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer
consideration or variable consideration with elements such as volume
discounts, service level credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and
incentives. The transaction price is also adjusted for the effects of the time
value of money if the contract includes a significant financing component. Any
consideration payable to the customer is adjusted to the transaction price,
unless it is a payment for a distinct product or service from the customer. The
estimated amount of variable consideration is adjusted in the transaction price
only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur and is reassessed
at the end of each reporting period. The Company allocates the elements
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

of variable considerations to all the performance obligations of the contract
unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct
performance obligations.
The Company exercises judgement in determining whether the performance
obligation is satisfied at a point in time or over a period of time. The Company
considers indicators such as how customer consumes benefits as services
are rendered or who controls the asset as it is being created or existence
of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use
of such product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the
customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.
Revenue from subsidiaries is recognised based on transaction price which is at
arm’s length.
Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred except for certain
software licence costs which meet the criteria for capitalisation. Such costs are
amortised over the contractual period or useful life of licence, whichever is
less. The assessment of this criteria requires the application of judgement, in
particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be used
to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to
be recovered.
Contract assets are recognised when there are excess of revenues earned
over billings on contracts. Contract assets are classified as unbilled receivables
(only act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive
cash, and only passage of time is required, as per contractual terms.
Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there
are billings in excess of revenues.
Standalone Financial Statements | 371

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance
based payments and / or milestone based progress payments. Invoices are
payable within contractually agreed credit period.
In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Company recognises an onerous contract
provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a
contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.
Contracts are subject to modification to account for changes in contract
specification and requirements. The Company reviews modification to contract
in conjunction with the original contract, basis which the transaction price
could be allocated to a new performance obligation, or transaction price of an
existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is
revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.

Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical is as follows:

Banking, Financial Services and Insurance
Manufacturing
Retail and Consumer Business
Communication, Media and Technology
Life Sciences and Healthcare
Others

Year ended
March 31, 2022

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021

North Ame rica

90,630

76,510

Latin America

314

288

Americas

Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:
(` crore)

Consultancy services

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
51,189
11,747
22,219
24,243
14,920
11,645
1,35,963

Revenue disaggregation by geography is as follows:

The Company disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature
of services, industry verticals and geography.

Sale of equipment and software licences

Year ended
March 31, 2022
58,614
14,576
26,966
28,778
18,341
13,066
1,60,341

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

1,59,106

1,34,585

1,235

1,378

1,60,341

1,35,963

Europe
United Kingdom

27,595

22,913

Continental Europe

17,595

15,364

Asia Pacific

11,178

9,839

India

9,547

8,102

Middle East and Africa

3,482

2,947

1,60,341

1,35,963

Geographical revenue is allocated based on the location of the customers.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 372

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Information about major customers

Changes in contract assets are as follows:
(` crore)

No single customer represents 10% or more of the Company’s total revenue
during the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021.
While disclosing the aggregate amount of transaction price yet to be
recognised as revenue towards unsatisfied (or partially) satisfied performance
obligations, along with the broad time band for the expected time to recognise
those revenues, the Company has applied the practical expedient in
Ind AS 115. Accordingly, the Company has not disclosed the aggregate
transaction price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance
obligations which pertain to contracts where revenue recognised corresponds
to the value transferred to customer typically involving time and material,
outcome based and event based contracts.
Unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations are subject to
variability due to several factors such as terminations, changes in scope of
contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates, economic factors (changes in
currency rates, tax laws etc). The aggregate value of transaction price allocated
to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is `93,546 crore
out of which 56.71% is expected to be recognised as revenue in the next year
and the balance thereafter. No consideration from contracts with customers is
excluded from the amount mentioned above.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Balance at the beginning of the year

3,051

3,486

Invoices raised that were included in the
contract assets balance at the beginning of the
year

(2,464)

(2,795)

Increase due to revenue recognised during the
year, excluding amounts billed during the year

2,828

2,332

Translation exchange difference

55

28

Balance at the end of the year

3,470

3,051

Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Balance at the beginning of the year

3,161

2,915

Revenue recognised that was included in the
contract liability balance at the beginning of the
year

(2,311)

(2,388)

Increase due to invoicing during the year,
excluding amounts recognised as revenue
during the year

2,735

2,602

Translation exchange difference

(12)

32

Balance at the end of the year

3,573

3,161

Standalone Financial Statements | 373

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
(` crore)

Contracted price
Reductions towards variable consideration
components
Revenue recognised

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

1,62,898

1,38,292

(2,557)

(2,329)

1,60,341

1,35,963

The reduction towards variable consideration comprises of volume discounts, service
level credits, etc.

11) Other income
Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Interest income comprise:
Interest on bank balances and bank deposits
Interest on financial assets carried at amortised
cost
Interest on financial assets carried at fair value
through OCI
Other interest (including interest on tax refunds)
Dividend income comprise:
Dividend from subsidiaries

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
428
7
68
5,400

256
481

107
500

1,818

1,762

-

14

3,548

2,213

12) Employee benefits
Defined benefit plans

Other income consist of the following:

Interest income
Dividend income
Net gain on disposal / fair valuation of
investments carried at fair value through profit
or loss
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and
equipment
Net gain on lease modification

Net foreign exchange gain
Rent income
Other income

Year ended
March 31, 2022
1,068
21
81
7,486

Year ended
March 31, 2022
2,555
3,548
186

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
2,383
2,213
193

25

19

2

89

For defined benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using
the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out
at each balance sheet date. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and
losses, the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling and the return on plan
assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the balance sheet with
a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in
which they occur. Past service cost, both vested and unvested, is recognised
as an expense at the earlier of (a) when the plan amendment or curtailment
occurs; and (b) when the entity recognises related restructuring costs or
termination benefits.
Standalone Financial Statements | 374

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represents
the present value of the defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value
of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the
present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the
scheme.

services are recognised as undiscounted liability at the balance sheet date.
Compensated absences which are not expected to occur within twelve months
after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related services
are recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the
defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.

The Company provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund
(Company managed fund) to its employees which are treated as defined
benefit plans.

Employee benefit expenses consist of the following:
(` crore)

Defined contribution plans

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when
employees have rendered services entitling them to such benefits.

Salaries, incentives and allowances

73,115

63,006

Contributions to provident and other funds

5,734

4,321

The Company provides benefits such as superannuation and foreign defined
contribution plans to its employees which are treated as defined contribution
plans.

Staff welfare expenses

2,248

1,719

81,097

69,046

Short-term employee benefits

Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:

All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering
the service are classified as short-term employee benefits. Benefits such
as salaries, wages etc. and the expected cost of ex-gratia are recognised
in the period in which the employee renders the related service. A liability
is recognised for the amount expected to be paid when there is a present
legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service
provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.

Employee benefit obligations – Non-current

Compensated absences

(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Foreign defined benefit plans

25

19

Other employee benefit obligations

78

89

103

108

Compensated absences which are expected to occur within twelve months
after the end of the period in which the employee renders the related
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 375

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Employee benefit plans consist of the following:

Employee benefit obligations – Current
(` crore)

Compensated absences
Other employee benefit obligations

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

2,802

2,558

42

40

2,844

2,598

Gratuity and pension
In accordance with Indian law, the Company operates a scheme of gratuity
which is a defined benefit plan. The gratuity plan provides for a lump sum
payment to vested employees at retirement, death while in employment or on
termination of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 to 30 days’ salary
payable for each completed year of service. Vesting occurs upon completion
of five continuous years of service. The Company manages the plan through
a trust. Trustees administer contributions made to the trust. Certain overseas
branches of the Company also provide for retirement benefit plans in
accordance with the local laws.

Standalone Financial Statements | 376

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans and the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
(` crore)
Domestic
plans Funded
Change in benefit obligations
Benefit obligations, beginning of the year
Translation exchange difference
Changes due to inter-company transfers
Service cost
Interest cost
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit
liability
Benefits paid
Benefit obligations, end of the year

As at March 31, 2022
Foreign plans
Foreign plans
Funded
Unfunded

Total

Domestic
plans Funded

As at March 31, 2021
Foreign plans
Foreign plans
Funded
Unfunded

Total

4,313
(3)
536
296
(190)

1
-

19
1
5
5

4,333
1
(3)
541
296
(185)

3,636
460
244
135

2
-

16
4
-

3,654
464
244
135

(488)
4,464

1

(5)
25

(493)
4,490

(162)
4,313

(1)
1

(1)
19

(164)
4,333
(` crore)

Domestic
plans Funded
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the
year
Changes due to inter-company transfers
Interest income
Employers’ contributions
Benefits paid
Remeasurement - return on plan assets
excluding amount included in interest income
Fair value of plan assets, end of the year
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

As at March 31, 2022
Foreign plans
Foreign plans
Funded
Unfunded

Total

Domestic
plans Funded

As at March 31, 2021
Foreign plans
Foreign plans
Funded
Unfunded

Total

4,704

1

-

4,705

3,641

2

-

3,643

(3)
334
975
(488)
(5)

-

-

(3)
334
975
(488)
(5)

269
837
(162)
119

(1)
-

-

269
837
(163)
119

5,517

1

-

5,518

4,704

1

-

4,705

Standalone Financial Statements | 377

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(` crore)
Domestic
plans Funded
Funded status
Deficit of plan assets over obligations
Surplus of plan assets over obligations

1,053
1,053

As at March 31, 2022
Foreign plans
Foreign plans
Funded
Unfunded
-

(25)
(25)

Total

(25)
1,053
1,028

Domestic
plans Funded
391
391

As at March 31, 2021
Foreign plans
Foreign plans
Funded
Unfunded
-

Total

(19)
(19)

(19)
391
372

(` crore)
Domestic
plans Funded
Category of assets
Corporate bonds
Equity instruments
Government bonds and securities
Insurer managed funds
Bank balances
Others

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

1,696
66
2,624
981
5
145
5,517

As at March 31, 2022
Foreign plans
Foreign plans
Funded
Unfunded
1
1

-

Total

1,696
66
2,624
982
5
145
5,518

Domestic
plans Funded
1,408
29
2,257
909
2
99
4,704

As at March 31, 2021
Foreign plans
Foreign plans
Funded
Unfunded
1
1

-

Total

1,408
29
2,257
910
2
99
4,705

Standalone Financial Statements | 378

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Net periodic gratuity cost, included in employee cost consists of the following components:
(` crore)
Domestic
plans Funded
536
(38)
498
329

Service cost
Net interest on net defined benefit asset
Net periodic gratuity / pension cost
Actual return on plan assets

As at March 31, 2022
Foreign plans
Foreign plans
Funded
Unfunded
5
5
-

Total
541
(38)
503
329

Domestic
plans Funded
460
(25)
435
388

As at March 31, 2021
Foreign plans
Foreign plans
Funded
Unfunded
4
4
-

Total
464
(25)
439
388

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:
(` crore)

Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from
changes in demographic assumptions
Actuarial gains arising from changes in
financial assumptions
Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from
changes in experience adjustments
Remeasurement of the net defined
benefit liability
Remeasurement - return on plan assets
excluding amount included in interest
income

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

As at March 31, 2022
Domestic
Foreign
Foreign plans
plans Funded plans Funded
Unfunded
(20)
2

(` crore)

Total
(18)

(165)

-

(1)

(166)

(5)

-

4

(1)

(190)

-

5

(185)

5

-

-

5

(185)

-

5

(180)

Actuarial losses arising from changes in
demographic assumptions
Actuarial gains arising from changes in
financial assumptions
Actuarial losses arising from changes in
experience adjustments
Remeasurement of the net defined
benefit liability
Remeasurement - return on plan assets
excluding amount included in interest
income

As at March 31, 2021
Domestic
Foreign
Foreign plans
plans Funded plans Funded
Unfunded
24
-

Total
24

(32)

-

-

(32)

143

-

-

143

135

-

-

135

(119)

-

-

(119)

16

-

-

16

Standalone Financial Statements | 379

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out below:

Discount rate
Rate of increase in compensation levels of covered employees
Rate of return on plan assets
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations

As at March 31, 2022
Domestic plans
Foreign plans
7.00%
1.50%-2.70%
6.00%
2.24%-3.80%
7.00%
1.50%-2.70%
8 years
3-6.4 years

Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by
the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.
The expected benefits are based on the same assumptions as are used to
measure the Company’s defined benefit plan obligations as at March 31,
2022. The Company does not expect to contribute to defined benefit plan
obligations funds for year ending March 31, 2023 in view of adequate surplus
plan assets as at March 31, 2022.
The significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined
benefit obligations are discount rate and expected salary increase. The
sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible
changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting
period, while holding all other assumptions constant.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

As at March 31, 2021
Domestic plans
Foreign plans
6.50%
0.50%-2.00%
6.00%
1.83%-3.45%
6.50%
0.50%-2.00%
10 years
3-6.9 years

If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit
obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Increase of 0.50%

(159)

(190)

Decrease of 0.50%

170

206

If the expected salary growth increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined
benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Increase of 0.50%

171

206

Decrease of 0.50%

(161)

(192)

Standalone Financial Statements | 380

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the
actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is unlikely that the
change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the
assumptions may be correlated.
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of
the defined benefit obligations has been calculated using the Projected Unit
Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that
applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the
balance sheet.
Each year an Asset-Liability matching study is performed in which the
consequences of the strategic investment policies are analysed in terms of risk
and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within
this study.
The defined benefit obligations shall mature after the year ended March 31,
2022 as follows:
(` crore)
Year ending March 31,

Defined benefit obligations

2023

455

2024

377

2025

396

2026

386

2027
2028-2032

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

392
1,909

Provident fund
In accordance with Indian law, all eligible employees of the Company in India
are entitled to receive benefits under the provident fund plan in which both
the employee and employer (at a determined rate) contribute monthly to
a trust set up by the Company to manage the investments and distribute
the amounts entitled to employees. This plan is a defined benefit plan as the
Company is obligated to provide its members a rate of return which should, at
the minimum, meet the interest rate declared by Government administered
provident fund. A part of the Company’s contribution is transferred to
Government administered pension fund. The contributions made by the
Company and the shortfall of interest, if any, are recognised as an expense in
statement of profit and loss under employee benefit expenses. In accordance
with an actuarial valuation of provident fund liabilities on the basis of
guidance issued by Actuarial Society of India and based on the assumptions
as mentioned below, there is no deficiency in the interest cost as the present
value of the expected future earnings of the fund is greater than the expected
amount to be credited to the individual members based on the expected
guaranteed rate of interest of Government administered provident fund.
The details of fund and plan assets are given below:
(` crore)
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Fair value of plan assets

22,814

20,003

Present value of defined benefit obligations

(22,814)

(20,003)

-

-

Net excess / (shortfall)

Standalone Financial Statements | 381

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
The plan assets have been primarly invested in government securities and
corporate bonds.
The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligations of
interest guarantee under the deterministic approach are as follows:
As at
March 31, 2022

As at
March 31, 2021

Discount rate

7.00%

6.50%

Average remaining tenure of investment
portfolio

8 years

8 years

Guaranteed rate of return

8.10%

8.50%

The Company expensed `1,372 crore and `1,078 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards provident fund.

13) Cost recognition
Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and have been classified
according to their nature.
The costs of the Company are broadly categorised in employee benefit
expenses, cost of equipment and software licences, depreciation and
amortisation expense and other expenses. Other expenses mainly include
fees to external consultants, facility expenses, travel expenses, communication
expenses, bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful trade
receivables and advances (net) and other expenses. Other expenses are
aggregation of costs which are individually not material such as commission
and brokerage, recruitment and training, entertainment, etc.
(a) Cost of equipment and software licences
Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:

Superannuation
All eligible employees on Indian payroll are entitled to benefits under
Superannuation, a defined contribution plan. The Company makes monthly
contributions until retirement or resignation of the employee. The Company
recognises such contributions as an expense when incurred. The Company has
no further obligation beyond its monthly contribution.

Raw materials, sub-assemblies and
components consumed
Equipment and software licences
purchased

The Company expensed `271 crore and `254 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards Employees’ Superannuation
Fund.

Finished goods and work-in-progress
Opening stock
Less: Closing stock

Foreign defined contribution plan
The Company expensed `885 crore and `658 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards foreign defined contribution
plans.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Year ended
March 31, 2022
29

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
14

984

1,215

1,013

1,229

-*
3

1
-*

(3)

1

1,010

1,230

*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Standalone Financial Statements | 382

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(b) Other expenses
Other expenses consist of the following:

Fees to external consultants
Facility expenses
Travel expenses
Communication expenses
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance
for doubtful trade receivables and advances
(net)
Other expenses

Year ended
March 31, 2022
19,338
1,707
1,361
1,303
107

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
14,527
1,708
919
1,254
185

8,173
31,989

6,784
25,377

4 Total of previous years shortfall
5 Reason for shortfall
6 Nature of CSR activities

7 Details of related party transactions in
relation to CSR expenditure as per relevant
Accounting Standard :
Contribution to TCS Foundation in relation
to CSR expenditure

(` crore)
Year ended
Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
NA
NA
Disaster Relief, Education, Skilling,
Employment, Entrepreneurship,
Health, Wellness and Water,
Sanitation and Hygiene, Heritage

680

351

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Interest on lease liabilities

451

450

Interest on tax matters

7

85

14) Finance costs
Other expenses include `3,733 crore and `2,944 crore for the years ended
March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards sales, marketing and
advertisement expenses.
(c)

Finance costs consist of the following:
(` crore)

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure

1 Amount required to be spent by the
company during the year
2 Amount of expenditure incurred on:
(i). Construction/acquisition of any asset
(ii) On purposes other than (i) above
3 Shortfall at the end of the year
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Year ended
March 31, 2022
716

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2021
663

727
-

674
-

Other interest costs

28

2

486

537

Standalone Financial Statements | 383

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
15) Income taxes
Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in
the deferred tax asset or liability during the year. Current and deferred taxes
are recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to
items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity,
in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Current income taxes
The current income tax expense includes income taxes payable by the
Company having its branches in India and overseas where it operates. The
current tax payable by the Company in India is Indian income tax payable
on worldwide income after taking credit for tax relief available for export
operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
Current income tax payable by overseas branches of the Company is
computed in accordance with the tax laws applicable in the jurisdiction in
which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available
for set off against the Indian income tax liability of the Company’s worldwide
income.
Advance taxes and provisions for current income taxes are presented in the
balance sheet after off-setting advance tax paid and income tax provision
arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit
intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Deferred income taxes
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred
income tax assets and liabilities are recognised for deductible and taxable
temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and
their carrying amount, except when the deferred income tax arises from the
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business
combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the
time of the transaction.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary
differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses
can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred
income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted tax
rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary
differences are expected to be received or settled.
For operations carried out in SEZs, deferred tax assets or liabilities, if any, have
been established for the tax consequences of those temporary differences
between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases that reverse after the tax holiday ends.

Standalone Financial Statements | 384

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes
levied by the same taxation authority and the relevant entity intends to settle
its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance
with the tax laws in India, to the extent it would be available for set off against
future current income tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred
tax asset in the balance sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it
is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will be
realised.
The income tax expense consists of the following:
(` crore)

Current tax benefit pertaining to prior years

Deferred tax benefit pertaining to prior years

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Profit before taxes

49,723

40,902

Indian statutory income tax rate

34.94%

34.94%

Expected income tax expense

17,375

14,293

Tax holidays

(4,604)

(4,708)

Income exempt from tax

Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile
expected income tax expense to reported
income tax expense

Year ended
March 31, 2021

12,912

10,404

(981)

(104)

11,931

10,300

(395)

(294)

-

(64)

(395)

(358)

Others (net)

11,536

9,942

Deferred tax
Deferred tax benefit for current year

(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2022
Current tax
Current tax expense for current year

The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at statutory income tax
rate to income tax expense reported in statement of profit and loss is as
follows:

(1,240)

(773)

Undistributed earnings in branches

(232)

26

Tax on income at different rates

1,107

1,103

Tax pertaining to prior years

(981)

(168)

Total income tax expense

111

169

11,536

9,942

The Company benefits from the tax holiday available for units set up under
the Special Economic Zone Act, 2005. These tax holidays are available for a
period of fifteen years from the date of commencement of operations. Under
the SEZ scheme, the unit which begins providing services on or after April 1,
2005 will be eligible for deductions of 100% of profits or gains derived from
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 385

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
export of services for the first five years, 50% of such profit or gains for a
further period of five years and 50% of such profits or gains for the balance
period of five years subject to fulfillment of certain conditions. From April 1,
2011 profits from units set up under SEZ scheme are subject to Minimum
Alternate Tax (MAT).
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year
ended March 31, 2022 are as follows:
Opening
balance

Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in
relation to
Property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets
Provision for employee benefit
obligations
Cash flow hedges
Receivables, financial assets at
amortised cost
MAT credit entitlement
Branch profit tax
Unrealised gain on securities carried
at fair value through profit or loss /
other comprehensive income
Lease liabilities
Others

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Recognised
in profit and
loss

Recognised in
/ reclassified
from other
comprehensive
income

Adjustments
/ utilisation

(` crore)
Closing
balance

Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022

84

-

-

374

639

94

-

-

733

(8)
336

36

16
-

-

8
372

1,710
(310)
(500)

233
-

180

(736)
-

974
(77)
(320)

210
428
2,795

(29)
(23)
395

196

(736)

181
405
2,650

Liabilities

Net

Property, plant and equipment and Intangible
assets

426

52

374

Provision for employee benefit obligations

733

-

733

8

-

8

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

372

-

372

MAT credit entitlement

974

-

974

-

77

(77)

Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value
through profit or loss / other comprehensive
income

(320)

-

(320)

Lease liabilities

181

-

181

Cash flow hedges

Branch profit tax

290

Assets

Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to

Others

405

-

405

2,779

129

2,650

Standalone Financial Statements | 386

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year
ended March 31, 2021 are as follows:

Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
(` crore)

(` crore)
Opening
balance

Recognised
in profit and
loss

Recognised in
/ reclassified
from other
comprehensive
income

Adjustments
/ utilisation

Closing
balance

Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
in relation to
Property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets

162

Provision for employee benefit
obligations

468

Cash flow hedges

128

-

-

171

-

-

290
639

As at March 31, 2021

55

290

Provision for employee benefit obligations

639

-

639

Cash flow hedges

(8)

-

(8)

Receivables, financial assets at amortised cost

336

-

336

1,710

-

1,710

-

310

(310)

Unrealised gain on securities carried at fair value
through profit or loss / other comprehensive
income

(500)

-

(500)

210

-

210

MAT credit entitlement
Branch profit tax

7

-

(15)

-

(8)

9

-

-

336

MAT credit entitlement

1,049

64

-

597

1,710

Lease liabilities
Others

(284)

(26)

-

-

(310)

(483)

-

(17)

-

(500)

Lease liabilities

308

(98)

-

-

210

Others

318

110

-

-

428

1,872

358

(32)

597

2,795

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Net

345

327

Branch profit tax

Liabilities

Property, plant and equipment and Intangible
assets

Receivables, financial assets at
amortised cost

Unrealised gain on securities
carried at fair value through profit
or loss / other comprehensive
income

Assets

Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to

428

-

428

3,160

365

2,795

Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, the Company is liable to pay Minimum
Alternate Tax in the tax holiday period. MAT paid can be carried forward for
a period of 15 years and can be set off against the future tax liabilities. MAT
is recognised as a deferred tax asset only when the asset can be measured
reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the
asset will be realised.

Standalone Financial Statements | 387

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Direct tax contingencies
The Company has ongoing disputes with income tax authorities in India and
in some of the other jurisdictions where it operates. The disputes relate to tax
treatment of certain expenses claimed as deduction, computation or eligibility
of tax incentives and allowances and characterisation of fees for services
received. The Company has recognised contingent liability in respect of tax
demands received from direct tax authorities in India and other jurisdictions of
`1,616 crore and `891 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
These demand orders are being contested by the Company based on the
management evaluation and advise of tax consultants. In respect of tax
contingencies of `318 crore and `318 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively, not included above, the Company is entitled to an indemnification
from the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited.
The Company periodically receives notices and inquiries from income tax
authorities related to the Company’s operations in the jurisdictions it operates
in. The Company has evaluated these notices and inquiries and has concluded
that any consequent income tax claims or demands by the income tax
authorities will not succeed on ultimate resolution.
The number of years that are subject to tax assessments varies depending
on tax jurisdiction. The major tax jurisdictions of Tata Consultancy Services
Limited include India, United States of America and United Kingdom. In India,
tax filings from fiscal 2018 are generally subject to examination by the tax
authorities. In United States of America, the federal statute of limitation
applies to fiscals 2018 and earlier and applicable state statutes of limitation
vary by state. In United Kingdom, the statute of limitation generally applies to
fiscal 2018 and earlier.
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

16) Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit or loss attributable
to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of
equity shares outstanding during the year. The Company did not have any
potentially dilutive securities in any of the years presented.
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Profit for the year (` crore)
Weighted average number of equity shares

Year ended
March 31, 2021

38,187

30,960

369,88,32,195

374,01,10,733

103.24

82.78

1

1

Year ended
March 31, 2022
9
1
4
1

Year ended
March 31, 2021
9
1
4
1

Basic and diluted earnings per share (`)
Face value per equity share (`)

17) Auditor’s remuneration
Auditor’s remuneration consists of the following:
(` crore)

Auditor
For taxation matters
For company law matters
For other services
For reimbursement of expenses

18) Segment information
The Company publishes the standalone financial statements of the Company
along with the consolidated financial statements. In accordance with Ind
AS 108, Operating Segments, the Company has disclosed the segment
information in the consolidated financial statements.
Standalone Financial Statements | 388

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
19) Commitments and contingencies
Capital commitments
The Company has contractually committed (net of advances) `1,315 crore and
`1,009 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, for purchase of
property, plant and equipment.
Contingencies
•
		
•
		

•

Direct tax matters
Refer note 15.
Indirect tax matters
The Company has ongoing disputes with tax authorities mainly relating
to treatment of characterisation and classification of certain items. The
Company has demands amounting to `500 crore and `495 crore as
at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, from various indirect tax
authorities which are being contested by the Company based on the
management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.
Other claims

		

Claims aggregating `235 crore and `105 crore as at March 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively, against the Company have not been acknowledged as
debts.

		

In addition to above, in October 2014, Epic Systems Corporation
(referred to as Epic) filed a legal claim against the Company in the Court
of Western District Madison, Wisconsin alleging unauthorised access to
and download of their confidential information and use thereof in the
development of the Company’s product MedMantra. In April 2016, the
Company received an unfavourable jury verdict awarding damages of

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

`7,115 crore (US $940 million) to Epic which was thereafter reduced
by the Trial Court to `3,179 crore (US $420 million). Pursuant to
reaffirmation of the District Court order in March 2019, the Company
filed an appeal in the Appeals Court to fully set aside the Order. Epic also
filed a cross appeal challenging the reduction by the District Court judge
of `757 crore (US $100 million) award and `1,514 crore
(US $200 million) in punitive damages. On August 20, 2020, the Appeals
Court vacated the award of `2,119 crore (US $280 million) in punitive
damages considering the award to be constitutionally excessive and
remanded the case back to District Court with instructions to reassess
and reduce the punitive damages award to at most `1,060 crore
(US $140 million), affirmed the District Court’s decision vacating the
jury’s award of `757 crore (US $100 million) in compensatory damages
for alleged use of “other confidential information” by the Company,
and affirmed the District Court’s decision upholding the jury’s award of
`1,060 crore (US $140 million) in compensatory damages for use of
the comparative analysis by the Company. The proceedings for assessing
punitive damages have been remanded back to the District Court. Both
the Company and Epic have filed their briefs at the District Court in
relation to punitive damages. The matter is under consideration by the
District Court. On April 8, 2021, Epic approached the Supreme Court
seeking review of the order of the Appeals Court vacating the award of
`2,119 crore (US $280 million) towards punitive damages and remanding
back to District Court with an instruction to reassess the punitive
damages, to no more than `1,060 crore (US $140 million). On March
21, 2022, Supreme Court denied Epic’s petition seeking review of the
order. The Company will continue to pursue all legal options available in
the matter. Considering all the facts and various legal precedence, on a
conservative and prudent basis, the Company provided `1,218 crore
(US $165 million) towards this legal claim in its statement of profit
Standalone Financial Statements | 389

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or
indirectly in the subsidiary and provide such managerial, technical and
financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the
subsidiary.

and loss for three month period ended September 30, 2020. This was
presented as an “exceptional item” in the standalone statement of profit
and loss.
		

•
		

Pursuant to US Court procedures, a Letter of Credit has been made
available to Epic for `3,331 crore (US $440 million) as financial security
in order to stay execution of the judgement pending post-appeal
proceedings and conclusion.
Guarantees and letter of comfort
The Company has given letter of comfort to banks for credit facilities
availed by its subsidiaries. As per the terms of letter of comfort, the

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

		

The Company has provided guarantees to third parties on behalf of its
subsidiaries. The Company does not expect any outflow of resources in
respect of the above.

The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could
be claimed by counter parties.

Standalone Financial Statements | 390

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
20) Related party transactions
The Company’s principal related parties consist of its holding company, Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries, its own subsidiaries, affiliates and key managerial
personnel. The Company’s material related party transactions and outstanding balances are with related parties with whom the Company routinely enter into
transactions in the ordinary course of business. Refer note 21 of consolidated financial statement for list of subsidiaries of the Company.
Transactions with related parties are as follows:
(` crore)

Revenue from operations
Dividend income
Rent income
Other income
Purchases of goods and services (including reimbursements)
Brand equity contribution
Facility expenses
Lease rental
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful
trade receivables and advances (net)
Contribution and advance to post employment benefit plans
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Advances given
Advances recovered
Advances taken
Dividend paid
Guarantees given
Buy-back of shares
Cost recovery
Sale of property, plant and equipment
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Tata Sons
Private Limited

Subsidiaries of
the Company

40
100
1
-

21,358
3,548
26
44
11,045
101
-

9,609
11,164
-

2
1
158
29
2,799
1

Year ended March 31, 2022
Subsidiaries of Tata
Associates / joint ventures of
Sons Private Limited
Tata Sons Private Limited and
their subsidiaries
770
2,233
534
159
19
45
73
24
(3)
1
15
3
3
5
4
-

147
6
17
1
2
6
-

Other related
parties

Total

-

24,401
3,548
26
44
11,738
100
166
97
(2)

2,322
-

2,322
162
11
21
159
9,616
29
11,174
2,799
1

Standalone Financial Statements | 391

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
(` crore)

Revenue from operations
Dividend income
Rent income
Other income
Purchases of goods and services (including reimbursements)
Brand equity contribution
Facility expenses
Lease rental
Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for doubtful
trade receivables and advances (net)
Contribution and advance to post employment benefit plans
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Advances given
Advances recovered
Advances taken
Dividend paid
Guarantees given
Buy-back of shares
Sale / Redemption of investments
Purchase of investments
Cost recovery

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Tata Sons Private
Limited

Subsidiaries of
the Company

35
1
100
1
-

18,245
2,215
12
40
8,798
87
-

7,817
9,998
-

3
1
12
224
2,840

Year ended March 31, 2021
Subsidiaries of Tata
Associates / joint ventures of
Sons Private Limited
Tata Sons Private Limited and
their subsidiaries
591
1,752
444
355
17
42
36
45
3
3
1
1
1
4
4
-

88
6
10
4
3
-

Other related
parties

Total

-

20,623
2,215
12
40
9,598
100
146
82
3

5,913
-

5,913
91
7
11
8
7,824
1
10,002
12
224
2,840

Standalone Financial Statements | 392

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022

Trade receivables and contract assets
Loans, other financial assets and other assets

Tata Sons
Private Limited

Subsidiaries of
the Company

Subsidiaries of
Tata Sons Private
Limited

Associates / joint ventures
of Tata Sons Private Limited
and their subsidiaries

11

6,704

242

673

Other related
parties

Total

-

7,630

10

157

52

30

-

249

21

6,861

294

703

-

7,879
(` crore)

As at March 31, 2021
Tata Sons
Private Limited

Subsidiaries of
the Company

Subsidiaries of
Tata Sons Private
Limited

Associates / joint ventures
of Tata Sons Private Limited
and their subsidiaries

Trade receivables and contract assets

8

4,392

255

519

-

5,174

Loans, other financial assets and other assets

9

65

21

62

-

157

17

4,457

276

581

-

5,331

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Other related
parties

Total

Standalone Financial Statements | 393

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Balances payable to related parties are as follows:
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022

Trade payables, unearned and deferred revenue, other
financial liabilities and other liabilities
Commitments and guarantees

Tata Sons Private
Limited

Subsidiaries of
the Company

Subsidiaries of
Tata Sons Private
Limited

Associates / joint ventures
of Tata Sons Private Limited
and their subsidiaries

Other related
parties

Total

92

5,067

499

111

-

5,769

-

4,610

37

201

-

4,848
(` crore)

As at March 31, 2021

Trade payables, unearned and deferred revenue, other
financial liabilities and other liabilities
Commitments and guarantees

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Tata Sons Private
Limited

Subsidiaries of
the Company

Subsidiaries of
Tata Sons Private
Limited

Associates / joint ventures
of Tata Sons Private Limited
and their subsidiaries

Other related
parties

Total

91

3,604

296

393

-

4,384

-

4,669

10

270

-

4,949

Standalone Financial Statements | 394

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
Material related party transactions are as follows:

Material related party balances are as follows:
(` crore)

(` crore)

Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB

2,172

1,939

Tata America International Corporation

Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.

2,804

2,034

Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB

Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH

3,038

2,504

Tata Consultancy Services France

Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV

3,006

2,848

Jaguar Land Rover Limited

1,500

1,093

Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd.

2,285

1,786

Revenue from operations

Tata America International Corporation

3,156

2,803

Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A.,De
C.V.

2,130

1,637

679

350

1,291

456

Tata America International Corporation

707

1,002

Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.

649

193

Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV

646

405

TCS Iberoamerica SA

682

374

88

219

1,063

1,028

Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV

594

244

Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.

345

271

Diligenta Limited

745

594

Jaguar Land Rover Limited

379

290

2,044

1,519

433

168

Trade payables, unearned and deferred
revenue, other financial liabilities and other
liabilities
Tata America International Corporation

Dividend income

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

As at
March 31, 2021

Trade receivables and contract assets

Purchases of goods and services (including
reimbursements)

TCS Foundation

As at
March 31, 2022

Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A.,De C.V.

Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:
(` crore)
Year ended
March 31, 2022

Year ended
March 31, 2021

Short-term benefits

53

43

Dividend paid during the year

1

1

54

44

Standalone Financial Statements | 395

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the remuneration committee having regard to the performance of individuals and market trends.
The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation / premium paid
are not available.
21) The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is `12 crore and `10 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
22) The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which would impact the contributions by the company towards Provident Fund and Gratuity. The
Ministry of Labour and Employment had released draft rules for the Code on Social Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020, and invited suggestions from stakeholders
which are under consideration by the Ministry. The Company will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are notified. The Company will give
appropriate impact in its financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
23) Additional Regulatory Information
•

Ratios
Ratio

Numerator

Denominator

Current year

Previous year

Current ratio (in times)

Total current assets

Total current liabilities

2.5

2.9

Debt-Equity ratio (in times)

Debt consists of borrowings and lease liabilities.

Total equity

0.1

0.1

Debt service coverage ratio (in times)

Earning for Debt Service = Net Profit after taxes
+ Non-cash operating expenses + Interest +
Other non-cash adjustments

Debt service = Interest and lease payments +
Principal repayments

23.2

20.4

Return on equity ratio (in %)

Profit for the year less Preference dividend (if
any)

Average total equity

50.3%

41.5%

Trade receivables turnover ratio (in times)

Revenue from operations

Average trade receivables

4.8

4.2

Trade payables turnover ratio (in times)

Cost of equipment and software licences + Other
expenses

Average trade payables

3.7

3.2

Net capital turnover ratio (in times)

Revenue from operations

Average working capital (i.e. Total current assets
less Total current liabilities)

2.9

2.5

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 396

Ratio

Numerator

Denominator

Current year

Previous year

Net profit ratio (in %)

Profit for the year

Revenue from operations

23.8%

22.8%

Return on capital employed (in %)

Profit before tax and finance costs

Capital employed = Net worth + Lease liabilities +
Deferred tax liabilities

60.4%

51.1%

Return on investment (in %)

Income generated from invested funds

Average invested funds in treasury investments

6.1%

6.5%

24) Dividends
Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2022 include an amount of `15.00 per equity share towards final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2021 and
an amount of `21.00 per equity share towards interim dividends for the year ended March 31, 2022. Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2021 include
an amount of `6.00 per equity share towards final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2020 and an amount of `23.00 per equity share towards interim dividends
(including special dividend) for the year ended March 31, 2021.
Dividends declared by the Company are based on the profit available for distribution. On April 11, 2022, the Board of Directors of the Company have proposed a final
dividend of `22.00 per share in respect of the year ended March 31, 2022 subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, and if approved,
would result in a cash outflow of approximately `8,050 crore.

As per our report of even date attached

For and on behalf of the Board

For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s registration no:101248W/W-100022

Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and Managing Director

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director

Amit Somani
Partner
Membership No: 060154

Samir Seksaria
CFO

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 397

Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies
Sr.
No.

Name of the Subsidiary Company

Date of becoming
subsidiary

Start date of
End date of
Reporting Exchange Rate
accounting period accounting period of Currency
of subsidiary
subsidiary

Share
Capital

Reserves
and
Surplus

Total
Assets

Total Investments Turnover
Liabilities

Profit
before
Tax

Provision Profit Proposed
% of
for Tax after Tax Dividend Shareholding

Country

` crore
1

APTOnline Limited

August 9, 2004

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

INR

1.000000

2

108

190

80

32

135

21

3

18

-

89%

India

2

MP Online Limited

September 8, 2006

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

INR

1.000000

1

120

158

37

121

77

24

6

18

-

89%

India

3

C-Edge Technologies Limited

January 19, 2006

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

INR

1.000000

10

303

394

81

-

322

98

25

73

-

51%

India

4

MahaOnline Limited

September 23, 2010

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

INR

1.000000

3

77

134

54

34

3

2

1

1

-

74%

India

5

TCS e-Serve International Limited

December 31, 2008

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

INR

1.000000

10

146

1,052

896

90

1,889

115

27

88

-

100%

India

6

Diligenta Limited

August 23, 2005

GBP

99.374057

10

1,392

2,696

1,294

293

3,730

8

-

8

-

100%

U.K.

7

Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc.

October 1, 2009

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

CAD

60.450647

43

791

2,412

1,578

-

8,022

664

172

492

-

100%

Canada

8

Tata America International Corporation

August 9, 2004

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

USD

75.696300

2

1,217

4,061

2,842

305

3,845

983

253

730

-

100%

U.S.A.

9

Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.

August 9, 2004

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

USD

75.696300

33

864

1,560

663

819

2,458

206

17

189

-

100%

Singapore

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

CNY

11.933644

241

19

396

136

-

884

25

10

15

-

93.2%

China

March 31, 2022

JPY

0.620894

269

1,207

2,676

1,200

-

4,663

358

111

247

-

66%

Japan

10 Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd.
11 Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.

November 16, 2006
July 1, 2014

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

April 1, 2021

12 Tata Consultancy Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd

August 9, 2004

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

MYR

17.995935

4

70

196

122

-

430

4

3

1

-

100%

Malaysia

13 PT Tata Consultancy Services Indonesia

October 5, 2006

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

IDR

0.005268

1

31

84

52

-

100

21

8

13

-

100%

Indonesia

14 Tata Consultancy Services (Philippines) Inc.

September 19, 2008

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

PHP

1.462589

(40)

153

443

330

-

775

61

8

53

-

100%

Philippines

15 Tata Consultancy Services (Thailand) Limited

May 12, 2008

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

THB

2.270265

2

6

52

44

-

110

3

1

2

-

100%

Thailand

16 Tata Consultancy Services Belgium

August 9, 2004

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

EUR

84.302958

2

424

809

383

-

2,241

129

34

95

-

100%

Belgium

17 Tata Consultancy Services Deutschland GmbH

August 9, 2004

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

EUR

84.302958

1

630

1,795

1,164

-

6,018

470

145

325

-

100%

Germany

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 398

Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies
Sr.
No.

Name of the Subsidiary Company

Date of becoming
subsidiary

Start date of
End date of
Reporting Exchange Rate
accounting period accounting period of Currency
of subsidiary
subsidiary

Share
Capital

Reserves
and
Surplus

Total
Assets

Total Investments Turnover
Liabilities

Profit
before
Tax

Provision Profit Proposed
% of
for Tax after Tax Dividend Shareholding

Country

` crore
18 Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB

August 9, 2004

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

SEK

8.160446

-

887

1,290

403

-

3,786

196

43

153

-

100%

Sweden

19 Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV

August 9, 2004

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

EUR

84.302958

556

2,080

4,081

1,445

1,645

5,794

599

79

520

-

100%

Netherlands

20 Tata Consultancy Services Italia s.r.l.

August 9, 2004

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

EUR

84.302958

19

55

175

101

-

386

30

14

16

-

100%

Italy

21 Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A.

October 28, 2005

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

EUR

84.302958

47

62

214

105

-

716

74

22

52

-

100% Capellen (G.D.
de Luxembourg)

22 Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Ltd.

October 31, 2006

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

CHF

81.771956

12

693

1,469

764

-

3,716

250

42

208

-

100%

Switzerland

23 Tata Consultancy Services Osterreich GmbH

March 9, 2012

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

EUR

84.302958

-

3

43

40

-

67

(2)

(1)

(1)

-

100%

Austria

24 Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS

March 16, 2012

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

DKK

11.333308

1

5

6

-

-

11

-

-

-

-

100%

Denmark

25 Tata Consultancy Services De Espana S.A.

August 9, 2004

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

EUR

84.302958

1

69

176

106

-

385

21

3

18

-

100%

Spain

26 Tata Consultancy Services (Portugal) Unipessoal,
Limitada

July 4, 2005

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

EUR

84.302958

-

13

40

27

-

54

10

1

9

-

100%

Portugal

27 Tata Consultancy Services France

June 28, 2013

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

EUR

84.302958

4

(389)

1,387

1,772

-

2,441

37

4

33

-

100%

France

28 Tata Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia

July 2, 2015

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

SAR

20.178147

8

104

202

90

-

345

(1)

4

(5)

-

100%

Saudi Arabia

29 Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (PTY) Ltd.

October 23, 2007

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

ZAR

5.231149

7

49

56

-

56

-

38

-

38

-

100%

South Africa

30 Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) (PTY) Ltd.

October 31, 2007

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

ZAR

5.231149

9

83

519

427

-

1,038

58

17

41

-

100%

South Africa

31 TCS FNS Pty Limited

October 17, 2005

March 31, 2022

AUD

56.598124

211

(64)

147

-

2

-

42

-

42

-

100%

Australia

32 TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd.

December 29, 2006

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

CNY

11.933644

44

(3)

56

15

-

62

3

2

1

-

100%

China

33 TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited

October 19, 2005

AUD

56.598124

-

87

131

44

41

68

54

7

47

-

100%

Australia

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

April 1, 2021

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

Standalone Financial Statements | 399

Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies
Sr.
No.

Name of the Subsidiary Company

Date of becoming
subsidiary

Start date of
End date of
Reporting Exchange Rate
accounting period accounting period of Currency
of subsidiary
subsidiary

Share
Capital

Reserves
and
Surplus

Total
Assets

Total Investments Turnover
Liabilities

Profit
before
Tax

Provision Profit Proposed
% of
for Tax after Tax Dividend Shareholding

Country

` crore
34 TCS Iberoamerica SA

August 9, 2004

35 TCS Solution Center S.A.

April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

USD

75.696300

745

933

1,679

1

1,645

-

763

32

731

-

100%

Uruguay

August 9, 2004

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

UYU

1.845126

66

291

498

141

-

904

160

33

127

-

100%

Uruguay

36 Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A.

August 9, 2004

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

ARS

0.682634

3

(1)

43

41

-

44

1

-

1

-

100%

Argentina

37 Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda

August 9, 2004

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

BRL

15.864257

279

45

587

263

-

1,082

116

42

74

-

100%

Brazil

38 Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V.

August 9, 2004

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

MXN

3.808006

1

605

1,768

1,162

-

3,178

321

322

(1)

-

100%

Mexico

39 Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A.

August 9, 2004

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

CLP

0.095933

163

221

528

144

53

682

100

11

89

-

100%

Chile

40 TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada

August 9, 2004

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

CLP

0.095933

147

168

324

9

308

35

87

1

86

-

100%

Chile

41 TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A.

December 28, 2006

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

USD

75.696300

23

81

216

112

-

469

74

25

49

-

100%

Ecuador

42 TCS Uruguay S.A.

January 1, 2010

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

UYU

1.845126

-

117

223

106

65

510

120

8

112

-

100%

Uruguay

43 MGDC S.C.

January 1, 2010

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

MXN

3.808006

65

(22)

131

88

-

46

(51)

32

(83)

-

100%

Mexico

44 Tata Consultancy Services Qatar L.L.C.

December 20, 2011

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

QAR

20.787692

4

29

45

12

-

52

1

-

1

-

100%

Qatar

45 Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited

October 31, 2018

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

GBP

99.374057

-

27

28

1

-

-

-

-

-

-

100%

U.K.

March 31, 2022

EUR

84.302958

-

20

135

115

56

148

21

7

14

-

100%

Germany

December 2, 2020

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

EUR

84.302958

211

34

408

163

-

817

25

5

20

-

100%

Ireland

48 TCS Technology Solutions AG

January 1, 2021

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

EUR

84.302958

27

203

1,279

1,049

-

1,717

221

9

212

-

100%

Germany

49 Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V.

May 26, 2021

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

EUR

84.302958

-

2

2

-

-

-

34

2

32

-

100%

Netherlands

August 31, 2021

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021

BGN

43.139169

-

9

25

16

-

19

10

1

9

-

100%

Bulgaria

46 TCS Business Services GmbH
47 Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited

50 Tata Consultancy Services Bulgaria EOOD

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

March 9, 2020

April 1, 2021

Standalone Financial Statements | 400

Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies
Sr.
No.

Name of the Subsidiary Company

Date of becoming
subsidiary

Start date of
End date of
Reporting Exchange Rate
accounting period accounting period of Currency
of subsidiary
subsidiary

Share
Capital

Reserves
and
Surplus

Total
Assets

Total Investments Turnover
Liabilities

Profit
before
Tax

Provision Profit Proposed
% of
for Tax after Tax Dividend Shareholding

Country

` crore
51 Tata Consultancy Services Guatemala, S.A.
52 TCS Foundation

September 1, 2021
March 25, 2015

January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021
April 1, 2021

March 31, 2022

GTQ

9.849876

8

4

25

13

-

22

5

1

4

-

100%

Guatemala

INR

1.000000

1

1,466

1,476

9

85

-

379

-

379

-

100%

India

Notes:
1. Indian rupee equivalents of the figures given in foreign currencies in the accounts of the subsidiary companies, are based on the exchange rates as on March 31, 2022.
2. Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C. renamed as Tata Consultancy Services Qatar L.L.C..
3. W12 Studios Limited renamed as Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited.
4.
Equity stake increased to 100% in Tata Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia on acquisition of Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V. w.e.f. May 26, 2021.
5. Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, Tata Consultancy Services Bulgaria EOOD in Bulgaria on August 31, 2021.
6. TCS Iberoamerica SA incorporated a subsidiary, Tata Consultancy Services Guatemala, S.A. in Guatemala on September 1, 2021.
7. Postbank Systems AG renamed as TCS Technology Solutions AG.
For and on behalf of the Board
Rajesh Gopinathan
CEO and Managing Director

N Ganapathy Subramaniam
COO and Executive Director

Samir Seksaria
CFO

Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde
Company Secretary

Mumbai, April 11, 2022

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Standalone Financial Statements | 401

Glossary

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

5G

Fifth generation wireless technology for digital cellular networks. 5G is expected to be much faster and
enable much higher volumes of data sharing than earlier generations of cellular networks. Its massive
capacity and ultra-low latency are expected to usher in an era of hyper-connectivity, enabling newer
use cases such as autonomous cars, and accelerating the adoption of IoT.

ADM

See Application Development and Maintenance

Agile

A collaborative approach for IT and business teams to develop software incrementally and faster. TCS
has pioneered the Location Independent Agile™ model that allows for deployment at scale, and helps
globally distributed organization execute large transformational programs quickly, while ensuring
stability and quality.

AgilityDebt™

AgilityDebt™ is an index developed by TCS, which uniquely indicates the burden carried by an
organization that restricts its Agility. The index is arrived at based on a holistic Agile maturity
assessment framework that measures the gap against required Agile talent, roles, team composition,
delivery practices, Agile culture, Agile technology and DevOps enablers. TCS uses AgilityDebt™ to
assess where the customer’s teams are in the Agile journey, find the bottlenecks, and accelerate their
Agile transformations.

Agile Workspaces

These are key enablers of TCS’ Location Independent Agile model, and represent the next generation
work environment that facilitate greater collaboration among teams. It is characterized by partitionless open offices, informal seating, interactive surfaces for information capture, and modern
collaboration devices for increased productivity.

AI

See Artificial Intelligence

Algo Retail™

TCS’ proprietary approach and suite of intellectual property that enables retailers to seamlessly
integrate and orchestrate data flows across the retail value chain, harnessing the power of analytics, AI
and machine learning in the areas of personalization, pricing optimization, marketing, online search and
commerce to unlock exponential business value.

Amortization

An accounting concept similar to depreciation, but used to measure the consumption of intangible
assets.

Analytics

In the enterprise context, this is the discovery, interpretation, and communication of meaningful
patterns in business data to predict and improve business performance.

Annuity Contracts

A long-term contract which can guarantee regular payments.

APAC

Acronym for Asia Pacific

API

See Application Programming Interface

Glossary | 402

APIfication

The process of exposing a discrete business function or data within
an enterprise’s systems through APIs.

Application
Development and
Maintenance

Design, development, and deployment of custom software; ongoing
support, upkeep, and enhancement of such software over its lifetime.

Application
Programming
Interface

A set of easily accessible protocols for communication among various
software components.

AR

See Augmented Reality

Artificial
Intelligence

Technology that emulates human performance by learning, coming
to its own conclusions, understanding complex content, engaging in
natural dialogs with people, augmenting human effort or replacing
people on execution of non-routine tasks. Also known as Cognitive
Computing.

ASEAN

Acronym for Association of Southeast Asian Nations

Assets Under
Custody

A measure of the total assets for which a financial institution,
typically a custodian bank, provides custodian services.

AUC

See Assets Under Custody

Attrition

Measures what portion of the workforce left the organization
(voluntarily and involuntarily) over the last 12 months (LTM).
Attrition (LTM) = Total number of departures in the LTM / closing
headcount

Augmented
Reality

Technology that superimposes a computer-generated image on a
user’s view of the real world to enrich the interaction.

Automation

The execution of work by machines in accordance with rules that
have either been explicitly coded by a human or ‘learned’ by the
machine through pattern recognition of data. Popular types include
Robotic Process Automation and Cognitive Automation.

Basis Point

One hundredth of a percentage point, that is, 0.01 percent.

BFSI

Acronym for Banking, Financial Services and Insurance

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Big Data

A high volume, high velocity, and/or high variety information asset
that require new forms of processing to enable enhanced decision
making, insight discovery, and process optimization.

Blockchain

A distributed database that maintains a continuously growing list of
records, called blocks, secured from tampering and revision.

Bp

See Basis Point

BPaaS

See Business Process as a Service

BPS

See Business Process Services

Business 4.0

TCS’ thought leadership framework that helps enterprises leverage
technology to further their growth and transformation agenda.
Successful Business 4.0 enterprises use technology to deliver mass
personalization, leverage ecosystems, embrace risk and create
exponential value. Such enterprises are agile, intelligent, automated
and on the cloud.

Business Process
as a Service

Refers to the delivery of BPS over a cloud computing model.
Whereas traditional BPS relies on labor arbitrage to reduce costs,
BPaaS aggregates demand using the cloud, servicing multiple
customers with a single instance, multi-tenant platform and shared
services, thereby delivering significant operating efficiencies. The
pricing model is usually outcome based.

Business Process
Services

Designing, enabling, and executing business operations including
data management, analytics, interactions and experience
management.

Buyback

A corporate action in which a company returns excess cash to
shareholders by buying back its shares from them and usually
extinguishing those shares thereafter. The company’s equity
share capital and the number of shares outstanding in the market
correspondingly reduces.

CAGR

See Compounded Annual Growth Rate

Capital
Expenditure
(CapEx)

Funds used by a company to acquire, upgrade, and maintain physical
assets such as property, buildings, an industrial plant, technology, or
equipment.
Glossary | 403

Carbon Neutral

This describes the state of an entity whose greenhouse gas
emissions to the atmosphere are balanced by activities which absorb
an equivalent amount from the atmosphere; often accomplished by
the use of carbon offsets.

Cognitive
Automation

Carbon Offset

Market-based instrument used to compensate for the emission of
greenhouse gases into the atmosphere because of the organization’s
activity by reducing them somewhere else. Certified Emission
Reductions (CERs) and Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are
some of the popular carbon offsets.

Cognitive Business An integrated offering where TCS takes responsibility for the
Operations (CBO) outcome of an entire slice of the customers’ operations including
the business processes and the underlying IT infrastructure, and uses
cognitive automation to transform that operational stack.

Cash and Cash
Equivalents

Cash comprises cash on hand and demand / time / fixed deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are
readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject
to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash and cash equivalents
are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments
rather than for investment or other purposes.

The use of AI and machine learning to automate relatively more
complex tasks that require reasoning capability and contextual
awareness. TCS’ ignio™ a leading cognitive automation software
product in the market today.

Cognitive
Computing

See Artificial Intelligence

COIN

See Co-Innovation Network

Co-Innovation
Network

This is an extended, global innovation ecosystem curated by TCS,
to harness the innovation efforts of start-ups and academia, and
incorporate them into transformational solutions built by TCS for its
customers.

Compounded
Annual Growth
Rate (CAGR)

The annual growth rate between any two points in time, assuming
that it has been compounding during that period.
Part of the TCS ADD suite, CCT is an innovative software-as-aservice platform that enables life sciences companies to significantly
transform patient engagement in clinical trials and improve
adherence to protocols, as well as the efficiency and accountability of
clinical trials.

Cash Flow

Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents.

Cash Flow from
Operating
Activities

Primarily derived from the principal revenue producing activities.
Therefore, they generally result from the transactions and other
events that enter into the determination of profit or loss.

CBO

See Cognitive Business Operations

CC

See Constant Currency

Connected Clinical
Trials (CCT)
Platform

Chatbots

Computer programs designed to simulate conversation with human
users, especially over the internet. They are typically used in dialog
systems for various practical purposes like customer service or
information acquisition.

Constant
Currency

The basis for restating the current period’s revenue growth after
eliminating the impact of movements in exchange rates during the
period.

Contextual
Knowledge

This is tacit knowledge pertaining to, and specific to, the granular
nuances of a customer’s business and IT landscape, acquired on
the job over a period of time. TCS teams use their contextual
knowledge to design technology solutions that are uniquely tailored
for that customer, and therefore, a potential source of competitive
differentiation.

Cloud

See Cloud Computing

Cloud Computing

The delivery of easily provisionable computing resources – servers,
storage, databases, networking, software, analytics and more – over
the internet, consumed on a pay-as-you-go basis.

CMT

Acronym for Communication, Media and Technology

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Glossary | 404

CO2e

Acronym for “Carbon dioxide equivalent”. It is a standard unit for
accounting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from carbon dioxide or
another greenhouse gases, such as SOX, NOX, methane, etc.

CPG

Acronym for Consumer Packaged Goods

Core Banking
System

A back-end system that processes daily banking transactions and
posts updates to accounts and other financial records; typically
includes deposit, loan and credit processing capabilities, with
interfaces to general ledger systems and reporting tools.

Core
Transformation

Modernization initiatives that target the one or more elements of
the organization’s operations stack consisting of business processes,
software systems and underlying infrastructure, usually to enable
greater agility, scalability, resilience and a superior customer
experience. These are typically large in scale and scope, and entail
the integrated delivery of multiple capabilities.

Cyber Security

Technologies, processes and practices designed to protect networks,
computers, programs and data from attack, damage or unauthorized
access.

Days’ Sales
Outstanding
(DSO)

A popular way of depicting the Trade Receivables - billed relative to
the company’s Revenue.

Depreciation

A method of allocating the cost of a tangible long-term asset over its
useful life. It is a non-cash accounting entry found in the statement
of profit and loss.

DevOps

Digital

Digital Twin

A digital replica of a physical entity. For instance, a digital twin
of a factory is a virtual model of the factory built using its data,
process, people information. Impact of any change in a process in
the real factory can be studied by simulating the change in the digital
twin.  

Discretionary
Spend

Also known as Change the Business (CTB) spend, it is that portion
of the IT budget which is used to fund projects that are not,
strictly speaking, essential for day to day operations, but are more
transformational in nature. In uncertain economic times, when
businesses are forced to cut spends in response to decline in income,
discretionary spend is often the first to be scrutinized. However, what
is considered discretionary is subjective and may differ considerably
amongst businesses even within the same sector.

Distributed
Ledger
Technology

See Blockchain

Dividend

One form of distribution of profits earned by the Company and
is usually declared as an amount per equity share held by the
Shareholders. TCS has a policy of declaring quarterly interim
dividends and the final dividend is approved by the shareholders in
the Annual General Meeting.

DLT

See Distributed Ledger Technology

EACs

Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) are market-based instruments
that can be used by the bearer to claim renewable energy
consumption. Each EAC is equivalent to 1 MWh of electricity.

Earnings Per
Share

The amount of that period’s Net Income attributable to a single
share after deducting any preference dividend and related taxes.

DSO = Trade Receivables - billed * 365 / LTM Revenue

Represents a new way of working to rapidly deploy new releases of a
software in production using high levels of automation and tooling.
TCS recommends adoption of DevOps, along with Agile for speed to
market.
Represents new age technologies such as Social Media, Mobility,
Analytics, Big Data, Cloud, Artificial Intelligence and Internet of
Things. Increasingly, with these technologies becoming mainstream,
this word is becoming redundant.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

EPS = [Net profit attributable to Shareholders of the Company –
Preference dividend, if any] / Weighted average number of equity
shares outstanding during the period

Glossary | 405

Edge Computing

Computing and storage that is located on servers on the edge of
the network, in close proximity to the users, but not through an onpremise data center; usually reserved for low latency use cases.

Effective Tax Rate

The proportion of the Profit Before Tax that is provided towards
income taxes.

Forward Contract

For e.g. TCS enters into a forward contract to sell USD 1 million
after 3 months @ `72. Irrespective of the prevailing USD-INR spot
rate, TCS will be obliged to sell USD 1 million @ `72 at the end of 3
months.

ETR = Tax expense / Profit Before Tax
EIA

Acronym for Environmental Impact Assessment. The study needs
to be conducted as per Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF)
requirements for new construction/ expansion projects.

Engineering and
Industrial Services

Consists of next generation product engineering, manufacturing
operations transformation, services transformation, embedded
software and Internet of Things.

Enterprise Agile

The adoption of Agile methods across all the business functions of
the enterprise, designed to empower employees, foster collaboration
and drive a culture of continuous innovation at scale.

EPS

See Earnings Per Share

ETR

See Effective Tax rate

Fair Value

The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date.

Fintech

Businesses that use technology to make financial services more
efficient. Some fintech developments have improved traditional
services, for example mobile banking apps, while others have
revolutionized services such as pay per mile car insurance, or created
new products, such as Bitcoin.

Fixed Price
Contracts

A form of services contracts where the vendor takes a turnkey
responsibility for delivering a solution for a certain price and within
a mutually agreed timeframe. The customer is billed on completion
of key project milestones and related deliverables. This arrangement
gives the vendor considerable flexibility in the staffing and execution
of the project. On the other hand, it also means bearing the project
risk.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

A hedging instrument wherein two parties agree to buy or sell a
particular asset (such as stock or currency) at a pre-determined rate
(or Forward rate) on a specific future date.

Framework

A kind of intellectual property, consisting of software which provides
generic functionality for a certain business use case, and which is
customized for a specific customer’s needs with additional code. Use
of such pre-built code reduces time to market and results in more
stable, reliable solutions.

Free Cash Flow

Represents the cash a company generates through its operations,
less the capital expenditure.
Free cash flow = Cash flow from operating activities – Capital
expenditure

FTE

Acronym for Full Time Equivalent

Furlough

A temporary cessation of work without pay for the employees,
usually implemented by organizations facing under difficult economic
conditions, and in lieu of laying off employees.

Gamification

The process of adding games or game-like elements to any activity
in order to enrich experiences and encourage user participation.

GDPR

Acronym for General Data Protection Regulation, a European Union
regulation for data protection and privacy.

GHGs

Acronym for Greenhouse Gases; refers to gases that trap heat in the
atmosphere leading to global warming and climate change.

Growth and
Transformation

Initiatives launched to improve the enterprise’s revenues, leveraging
technology to adopt new business models, drive new revenue
streams, enhance customer experience or target new customer
segments. This is in contrast to traditional outsourcing engagements
where the focus is on improving efficiency and saving costs.

Glossary | 406

G&T

See Growth and Transformation

HVAC

Acronym for Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning System

Hybrid Cloud

An enterprise IT infrastructure model that combines private clouds,
public clouds and on premise data centers, to meet the compute and
storage needs of the business.

Innovation Days

Focused workshops with a TCS customer where researchers and
business leaders from both organizations participate to explore
emerging technologies for specific customer problems.

Innovation Forum

TCS’ thought leadership event that is held in North America, UK,
Latin America and Japan. It brings together researchers from
academia, innovators from the start-up ecosystem, technology
watchers, futurists and customers to brainstorm around emerging
technologies.

Intellectual
Property

An asset that is the result of a creative design or idea, such as
patents, copyrights, reusable code, software products and platforms,
and gives the owner exclusive rights over its usage, such that no one
can copy or reuse the creation without the owner’s permission.

Interactive
Technology

Allows for a two-way flow of information through an interface
between the user and the technology; the user usually
communicates a request for data or action to the technology with
the technology returning the requested data or result of the action
back to the user.

Involuntary
Attrition

A reduction in the workforce due to the employer’s decision to
terminate employment, instead of the employees’ decision to leave.

IoT

See Internet of Things

IP

See Intellectual Property

Inorganic Growth

Growth in revenue due to mergers, acquisitions or takeovers, rather
than due to an increase in the company’s own business activity.

kL

Acronym for the unit kilo-liters used to measure volume. It is a unit
used to measure and report water usage.

ISO

Acronym for International Organization for Standardization

KMP

See Key Managerial Personnel

ISV

Acronym for Independent Software Vendor; a key market segment
serviced by TCS’ Hi-Tech business vertical. Leading software product
vendors across the world engage TCS to help them build new
features and functionality, maintain older versions of their products,
or to modernize their existing products with new cloud-native
architecture.

Key Managerial
Personnel

At TCS, this refers to the Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director,
Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and the Company
Secretary. Please refer to the Company’s policy on KMP:
http://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance

kWh

Also known as IoT. Refers to a network of interconnected machines
or devices embedded with sensors, software, network connectivity,
and necessary electronics to generate and share run-time data that
can be studied and used to monitor or control remotely, predict
failure, and optimize the design of those machines / devices.

Acronym for kilowatt hours used as a unit of measurement of
electricity

LatAm

Acronym for Latin America

Location
Independent Agile

A method to orchestrate globally distributed stakeholders and
talent into Agile teams for improved speed to market in large
transformational programs. It comprises processes, structure, and the
technology that allows enterprises to overcome location constraints
and embrace Agile methods on a global scale.

Machine First™
Delivery Model

A model that integrates analytics, AI and automation deep within the
enterprise to redefine how humans and machines work together and
to effectively deliver superior outcomes.

Internet of Things

Invested Funds

Funds that are highly liquid in nature and can be readily converted
into cash.
Invested funds = Cash and Cash Equivalents + Investments +
Deposits with banks + Inter-corporate deposits

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Glossary | 407

Machine Learning
Managed Services

A type of artificial intelligence that provides computers with the
ability to learn behaviors without being explicitly programmed.
This is the practice of outsourcing to one service provider, also
known as the Managed Services Provider (MSP), the end-to-end
responsibility for providing, or orchestrating the provision through
third party providers of, services around a range of processes and
functions, in order to improve efficiency, service quality, agility and
scalability.

Managed Services
Provider

Service providers with the sole, end-to-end responsibility of
providing Managed Services.

Market
Capitalization

The total market value of a company’s total outstanding equity
shares at a point in time.

MVP

See Minimum Viable Product

MWh

Acronym for megawatt hours used as a unit of measurement of
electricity. 1 MWh=1000kWh

Net Zero

Net zero refers to a state in which the greenhouse gases emitted
into the atmosphere due the company’s activity are minimized
through a series of initiatives and the residual emission is
compensated by removal of equivalent amount of GHG emissions
elsewhere through carbon offsets.

Non-Controlling
Interest

The share of the net worth attributable to non-controlling
shareholders of the subsidiaries.

Non-discretionary
Spend

Also known as Run the Business (RTB) spend, is that portion of
the IT budget that covers the basic IT activities required to keep a
business running. Even in tough economic times, non-discretionary
spend remains relatively unaffected.

Options Contract

A hedging instrument that offers the buyer the right to buy or sell
the underlying asset (such as stocks or currency) on a future date, at
a specified price, for small upfront fee called options premium.

Market Cap = Last Trading Price * Total number of outstanding
shares
MEA

Acronym for Middle East and Africa

Metaverse

Virtual-reality space in which users can interact with a computergenerated environment and other users. Metaverse is a merging of
virtual, augmented, and physical reality, and blurs the line between
online and offline interactions.

MFDM™

Acronym for Machine First Delivery Model

Minimum Viable
Product

The most basic version of a new product, with the bare minimum
functionality, which can be released to the users at the earliest, to
be augmented with incremental features and functionality over
subsequent iterative cycles. MVPs can be used by teams to learn
about user behavior and validate the product value with minimum
investment.

MJ

Acronym for Mega Joule used as a unit of measurement of energy
(electricity as well as fuel use)

Mobility

Information, convenience, and social media all combined together,
and made available across a variety of screen sizes and hand-held
devices.

MSP

See Managed Services Provider

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Eg: TCS purchases an options contract to sell USD 1mn @ ` 77/$
after 3 months, paying an option premium of `1 million. With this,
TCS will have the right to sell USD 1mn at an exchange rate of `77,
even if the prevailing market rate at the end of three months is, say
`75. On the other hand, if the market rate is higher, say `79, then
TCS can choose to let the options contract lapse and instead sell at
the market rate.
Order Book

See Total Contract Value

Organic Growth

The revenue growth a company can achieve by increasing its existing
business activity. This does not include growth attributable to
takeovers, acquisitions or mergers.

PaaS

See Platform as a Service

PAS 2060

Internationally recognized standard by the British Standards
Institution to verify and substantiate an organization’ claim of carbon
neutrality.
Glossary | 408

Personalization

Segmentation and responding to individual transactions, customized
for a single customer in a single instance.

Platforms

A group of technologies that are used as a base upon which other
applications, processes or technologies are developed. Useful for
optimizing costs and efforts, and eliminating iterative tasks to drive
strategic business initiatives.

Platform as a
Service (PaaS)

A category of cloud computing that provides a platform and
environment to allow developers to build applications and services
over the internet. PaaS services are hosted in the cloud and accessed
by users simply via their web browser.

Power Usage
Effectiveness

It is the ratio of total amount of electricity used by a data center
facility to the electricity used by the computing equipment in the
data center.

Pricing

The price charged to the customer for a billable effort, turnkey
project or a certain process outcome, depending on the nature of
the contract. Some use this term interchangeably (and somewhat
inaccurately) with the average revenue realized by the company per
utilized effort on an aggregate basis. See Realization.

Private Cloud

Refers to a model of cloud computing where IT infrastructure, in
terms of compute and storage resources, are provisioned for the
dedicated use of a single organization.

Product

In the technology context, refers to a packaged software program
that is made available to multiple customers either on a license
basis, or on a subscription basis, to enable the execution of certain
common tasks or processes or business functions in a standardized
way. This is the opposite of bespoke or custom software which is
built to specifications to meet a customer’s unique needs.

Public Cloud

A computing service model used for the provisioning of storage and
computational services to the general public over the internet. Public
cloud facilitates access to IT resources on a ‘pay as you go’ billing
model.

PUE

See Power Usage Effectiveness.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

R&I

Acronym for Research & Innovation

Realization

The revenue received by the company per utilized effort. Pricing
varies by service and by market. Consequently, there can be changes
in realization compared to a prior period, due to changes in the
underlying business or geographic mix during the period. This does
not necessarily mean that like-to-like pricing has changed. Also,
realization doesn’t take into account the costs and therefore, higher
realization is not necessarily more profitable.

RECs/ GOs

Renewable Energy Certificates / Guarantees of Origin are EACs used
in different markets.

Related Party
Transactions

Any transaction between a company and its related party involving
transfer of services, resources or any obligation, regardless of
whether a price is charged.
Please refer to the Company’s policy on Related Party Transactions:
http://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance.

Revenue

The income earned by the Company from operations by providing IT
and consulting services, software licenses, and hardware equipment
to customers.

RFP

Acronym for Request for Proposal, meaning a document that
solicits proposal, often made through a bidding process, by an
entity interested in procurement of IT services, to potential service
providers to submit business proposals. An RFP is floated early in
the procurement cycle and requested information may include basic
corporate information and history, financial information, technical
capability and estimated completion period, and customer references.

Robotic Process
Automation

The use of software tools to automate high-volume, repeatable
tasks that previously required humans to perform. RPA is best suited
for relatively simple and stable processes. Dynamic changes in the
environment require ongoing upkeep of the robots, diluting the
economic benefit of the automation. Increasingly, customers are
preferring cognitive automation over RPA.

RPA

See Robotic Process Automation
Glossary | 409

SBWS™

See Secure Borderless Workspaces

Scope 1, Scope 2,
Scope 3 emissions

Green house gas emission accounting categories as per the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol.

Secure Borderless
Workspaces™

TCS’ innovative operating model rolled out in response to the
COVID-19 disruption. It is a fully location agnostic extension
of the Location Independent Agile model, enabling employees
to work remotely, while retaining the same high rigor in project
management, governance and security. The fully distributed nature
of this model is better suited to ensure business continuity. It
leverages TCS’ prior investments and incorporates the learnings
and best practices around network management, standard service
delivery environment, digitized governance processes, heavy use
of collaborative and cloud based technologies and an internal SOC
benchmarked to the best in the industry.

Servitization

Subscription based model that generates recurring subscription fees
from a product versus the traditional one-time sale. This applies
to software products (Software-as-a-Service) as well as physical
products (Product-as-a-Service). In the case of the latter, a key
enabler is IoT which allows the seller to monitor the asset remotely.

SEZ

See Special Economic Zone

Shareholder
Payout Ratio

The proportion of earnings paid to shareholders as a percentage of
the Company’s earnings, i.e. Net Income attributable to Shareholders
of the Company. Payout can be in the form of dividend (including
dividend distribution tax) and share buyback.

Simplification

The rationalization of IT architectures through consolidation of
systems and elimination of redundant systems and layers. The
primary purpose is to shrink the IT footprint and make operations
leaner and more efficient.

Sole Sourced
Contract

Non-competitive agreements that allow a single vendor to fulfill the
needs of the contractual requirements. These types of contracts
can be won when the competitor set narrows down significantly and
comes down to a single vendor discussion, given the nature of the
client’s solution requirements.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Special Economic
Zone

In India, these are designated areas in which business and trade laws
are different from the rest of the country, with various benefits and
tax breaks to promote exports, attract investments, and create local
jobs.

STEM

Acronym for education in the fields of Science, Technology,
Engineering and Math.

Sustainathons

Platform/environment for multiple entities to come together in a
specified timeframe to seek solutions to sustainability challenges.
Expectations in a sustainathon includes clear framing of real world
issues (problem statements) to drive realistic, technology based
solutions. Immediate outcomes may include detailed solution ideas,
wireframes, code pieces or apps.

T&M

See Time and Materials Contract

TCS Pace™

A brand promise that represents the way TCS channels its domain
knowledge and organizational units – business and technology
services, industry solutions units, and the research and innovation
organization – into internal and external co-innovation programs.

TCS Pace Port™

Physical spaces where TCS Pace can be experienced. These spaces
are close to academic and start-up hubs, and enclose innovation
showcases, Agile workspaces and think spaces. They encourage
brainstorming, design thinking and collaborative innovation with
internal and external partners.

TCV

See Total Contract Value

Time and Materials
Contract

A form of services contract where the customer is billed for the
effort (in hours, days, weeks, etc.) logged by the project team
members. Project risk is borne by the customer. This contrasts with
Fixed Price Contracts.

Total Contract
Value

An aggregation of the value of all the contracts signed during a
period and a useful indicator of demand, and near term business
visibility.

Turnkey Contracts

See Fixed Price Contracts

Glossary | 410

tCO2e

Acronym for tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent which is used as
the unit for reporting greenhouse gas emissions.

Voluntary
Attrition

Unearned and
Deferred Revenue

For invoices raised in line with agreed milestones for services yet to
be delivered. In other words, it is the amount that has been invoiced
although the underlying effort is yet to be expended.

Refers to reduction in workforce resulting from employees willingly
leaving the organization to pursue other opportunities, spend time
with family, or for some other personal reason.

XR

Extended reality, an umbrella term that covers augmented reality,
virtual reality and mixed reality.

Y-o-Y

Year-on-Year

VR

See Virtual Reality

Virtual Reality

Artificial, computer-generated simulation or recreation of a real-life
environment or situation. It engages users by offering simulated
reality experiences firsthand, primarily by stimulating their vision and
hearing.

Virtualization

The abstraction of IT resources – like a server, client, storage or
network – that masks the physical nature and boundaries of those
resources from the users of those resources.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Disclaimer: This glossary is intended to help understand commonly used terms
and phrases in this report. The explanations are not intended to be technical
definitions. If explanations provided here are found to be different from what is
described in the Company’s periodic financial statements (not limited to Notes to
Accounts), then the definition provided in the certified financial statements will
prevail.

Glossary | 411

GRI Annexures

Identification of Material Topics1
TCS conducts annual materiality assessments to update the list of material topics. The key elements of that
assessment include:
Key Elements of Annual Materiality Assessments:

Engagement with
stakeholders

Sustainability
context and value
chain

1

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Stakeholder interactions result in the identification of a broad funnel
of issues important to each of the constituencies. The Company’s
Sustainability Council uses discussions with internal and external
stakeholders, as well as its own judgment, to prioritize and arrive at a
list of material topics with significant economic, environmental, or social
impacts on TCS’ business, reputation, and operations.

The company looks at the role of TCS in wider sustainability issues, the
impact the company has through its customer engagements and its
operations, and the role that the company experts play in professional
associations, industry forums and other thought leadership activities to
address important issues raised by stakeholders.

GRI 3-1
Identification of Material Topic  |  412

Key Material Topics2, Key Concerns, Boundary of impact and TCS approach3 to them are listed below:
Material Topics
Corporate Governance

2
3

Why this is material
Strong corporate governance that
considers - stakeholder concerns,
engenders trust, oversees business
strategies, and ensures fiscal
accountability, ethical corporate
behavior, and fairness to all
stakeholders is core to achieving
the organization’s longer-term
mission.

Key Concerns

TCS Approach (Page Reference
Number)

•

Governance Structure and
composition

•

Pg 137

•

Independence of the Board and
Minority Interest

•

Pg 138

•

Avoidance of conflict of interest

•

Pg 139

•

Board oversight

•

Pg 140

•

Disclosure and Transparency

•

Disclosures – Pg 154 to 156

•

Internal financial control
systems and their adequacy Pg 132

•

Value, ethics and compliance

•

Pg 139

•

Enterprise Risk Management

•

Pg 120

•

Succession Planning

•

Pg 141

•

Remuneration Policy

•

Pg 149

Boundary of
impact

GRI Indicators

Internal

2-9, 2-10, 2-11, 2-12,
2-14, 2-15, 2-19

GRI 3-2
GRI 3-3

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Identification of Material Topic  |  413

Material Topics
Business Sustainability

Why this is material
A financially strong, viable business
that is able to adapt to changing
technology landscapes to remain
relevant to customers and profitably
grow its revenues year-on-year
is essential to meet longer term
expectations of stakeholders.

Key Concerns
•

Economic performance

•

Financial Capital – Pg 20

•

Demand sustainability

•

Strategy for sustainable
growth – Pg 9, 108

•

New Organization Structure
– Pg 109

•

Business outlook – Pg 120

•

Enabling investments – Pg
108

•

Intellectual Capital - Pg 24
to 26

•

Talent Management

The company’s ability to attract,
develop, motivate, and retain talent
is critical to business success.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

TCS Approach (Page Reference
Number)

Investments in capability
development

•

Talent acquisition

•

Pg 22

•

Talent development

•

Pg 113

•

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

•

Pg 113

•

Talent retention

•

Pg 115

•

Employee Health and well being

•

Pg 112

•

Competitive Compensation

•

Pg 114

•

Occupational Health and safety

•

Pg 205

Boundary of
impact

GRI Indicators

Internal

2-22, 201-1

Internal

401-1, 401-2, 401-3,
403-1, 403-2, 403-3,
403-6, 403-9, 40310, 404-1, 405-1,
405-2, 406-1

Identification of Material Topic  |  414

Material Topics
Social Responsibility

Environmental Footprint

Why this is material
The business must be rooted in
community and be aligned with the
community’s larger interests. Any
adversarial relationship can hurt the
company’s ability to create longer
term value.

Business sustainability is linked to
the planet’s sustainability. Moreover,
good environmental practices result
in greater operational efficiency,
adding to financial sustainability.

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Key Concerns

TCS Approach (Page Reference
Number)

•

Local communities

•

Pg 174, 222, 228, 229

•

Education and skill development

•

Pg 175 to 179

•

Job creation

•

Employment and
employability – Pg 175 to
179

•

Taxes payable in different
regions

•

Tax strategy – Pg 140

•

Consolidated Income taxes –
Pg 298, 299

•

Country-wise subsidiary
income taxes – Pg 398 to
401

•

Environmental stewardship

•

Natural Capital – Pg 31, 200

•

Energy consumption and GHG
Emissions

•

Pg 31, 216, 218, 219, 225

•

Water management

•

Water conservation – Pg
217, 218, 224

•

Waste management

•

Waste reduction and reuse –
Pg 200, 221

Boundary of
impact

GRI Indicators

External

204-1, 207-1 308-1,
308-2, 413-1

Internal

302-1, 302-3, 303-1,
303-2, 303-3, 303-4,
303-5, 305-1, 305-2,
305-3, 305-4, 305-5,
306-2, 306-3, 306-4,
306-5

Identification of Material Topic  |  415

GRI Content Index4

4

Disclosure

Section *

Page No.

•

CG

140

Section *

Page No.

2-1 Organizational details

•

BRSR

186

2-14 Role of the highest
governance body in sustainability
reporting

2-2 Entities included in the
organization’s sustainability
reporting

•

BRSR

187, 190

2-15 Conflicts of interest

•

CG

139

2-17 Collective knowledge of the
highest governance body

•

BRSR

198

2-3 Reporting period, frequency
and contact point

•

BRSR

186

2-19 Remuneration policies

•
•

CG
BRSR

149
214

2-4 Restatements of information

•

BRSR

187

BRSR

214

•

BRSR

187, 197

2-21 Annual total compensation
ratio

•

2-5 External assurance
2-6 Activities, value chain and
other business relationships

•

BRSR

187, 188

2-22 Statement on sustainable
development strategy

9

2-7 Employees

•

CG

188

2-9 Governance structure and
composition

•
•

CG
BRSR

137
197

•	Letter from the
CEO
•
MDA
•
BRSR

2-23 Policy commitments

•

BRSR

2-10 Nomination and selection of
the highest governance body

•

CG

138

195, 199,
216, 230

•

BRSR

2-11 Chair of the highest
governance body

•

CG

139

2-24 Embedding policy
commitments

195, 212,
216

•

BRSR

2-12 Role of the highest
governance body in overseeing the
management of impacts

•

CG

139, 140

2-25 Processes to remediate
negative impacts

192, 203,
207, 215,
216, 229

•

BRSR

198, 223

2-13 Delegation of responsibility
for managing impacts

•

2-27 Compliance with laws and
regulations
2-28 Membership associations

•

BRSR

228

2-29 Approach to stakeholder
engagement

•

BRSR

208, 209

2-30 Collective bargaining
agreements

•

BRSR

203

GRI Standard
GRI 2: General
Disclosures
2021

GRI Standard
Disclosure

BRSR

197,
215

Requirement 7: Publish a GRI content index

108
196

* MDA: Management Discussion and Analysis, CG: Corporate Governance Report,
BRSR: Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

GRI Content Index  |  416

GRI Standard

Disclosure

Section *

Page No.

GRI Standard

GRI 3: Material
Topics 2021

3-1 Process to determine material
topics

•	GRI Annexures:
Identification of
Material Topics

412

3-2 List of material topics

•
BRSR
•	GRI Annexures:
Identification of
Material Topics

193
413

GRI 303: Water 303-1 Interactions with water as a
and Effluents
shared resource
2018
303-2 Management of water
discharge-related impacts

•

193, 196,
206, 207
413

3-3 Management of material topics

BRSR

•	GRI Annexures:
Identification of
Material Topics
GRI 201:
Economic
Performance
2016

201-1 Direct economic value
generated and distributed

•

Financial Capital

20

201-2 Financial implications and
other risks and opportunities due
to climate change

•

MDA

130

201-3 Defined benefit plan
obligations and other retirement
plans

•

BRSR

202

GRI 204:
Procurement
Practices 2016

204-1 Proportion of spending on
local suppliers

•

BRSR

229

GRI 205: Anticorruption
2016

205-3 Confirmed incidents of
corruption and actions taken

•

BRSR

199

GRI 207: Tax
2019

207-1 Approach to tax

•

CG

140

GRI 302:
Energy 2016

302-1 Energy consumption within
the organization

•

BRSR

216, 223

302-3 Energy intensity

•

BRSR

216

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

GRI 304:
Biodiversity
2016

GRI 305:
Emissions
2016

GRI 306:
Waste 2020

Disclosure

Section *

Page No.

•

BRSR

218

•

BRSR

218

303-3 Water withdrawal

•

BRSR

217, 224

303-4 Water discharge

•

BRSR

224

303-5 Water consumption

•

BRSR

217

304-1 Operational sites owned,
leased, managed in, or adjacent to,
protected areas and areas of high
biodiversity value outside protected
areas

•

BRSR

222

304-2 Significant impacts of
activities, products and services on
biodiversity

•

BRSR

226

304-3 Habitats protected or
restored

•

BRSR

226

305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG
emissions

•

BRSR

218

305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2)
GHG emissions

•

BRSR

218

305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3)
GHG emissions

•

BRSR

225

305-4 GHG emissions intensity

•

BRSR

218, 225

305-5 Reduction of GHG
emissions

•

BRSR

219

306-2 Management of significant
waste-related impacts

•

BRSR

200, 221

306-3 Waste generated

•

BRSR

220

GRI Content Index  |  417

GRI Standard

Section *

Page No.

GRI Standard

Section *

Page No.

306-4 Waste diverted from
disposal

Disclosure
•

BRSR

220

GRI 404:
Training and
Education
2016

404-1 Average hours of training
per year per employee

•
•

Human Capital
BRSR

23
203

404-3 Percentage of employees
receiving regular performance and
career development reviews

•

BRSR

204

GRI 405:
Diversity
and Equal
Opportunity
2016

405-1 Diversity of governance
bodies and employees

•	Human Capital
•
BRSR

22
189

405-2 Ratio of basic salary and
remuneration of women to men

•

BRSR

213, 214

GRI 406: Nondiscrimination
2016

406-1 Incidents of discrimination
and corrective actions taken

•

BRSR

215

GRI 413: Local
Communities
2016

413-1 Operations with local
community engagement, impact
assessments, and development
programs

•

BRSR

222, 228,
229

306-5 Waste directed to disposal

•

BRSR

220

GRI 308:
Supplier
Environmental
Assessment
2016

308-1 New suppliers that were
screened using environmental
criteria

•

BRSR

200, 227

308-2 Negative environmental
impacts in the supply chain and
actions taken

•

BRSR

227

GRI 401:
Employment
2016

401-1 New employee hires and
employee turnover

•	Human Capital
•
BRSR

22
189

401-2 Benefits provided to
full-time employees that are not
provided to temporary or part-time
employees

•

201

BRSR

401-3 Parental leave

•

BRSR

203

GRI 402:
Labor/
Management
Relations 2016

402-1 Minimum notice periods
regarding operational changes

•

MDA

115

GRI 403:
Occupational
Health and
Safety 2018

403-1 Occupational health and
safety management system

•

BRSR

205

403-2 Hazard identification,
risk assessment, and incident
investigation

•

BRSR

205, 206

403-3 Occupational health
services

•

BRSR

203

403-6 Promotion of worker health

•

BRSR

205

403-9 Work-related injuries

•

BRSR

206

403-10 Work-related ill health

•

BRSR

206, 208

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

Disclosure

GRI Content Index  |  418

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

GRI Content Index  |  419

TCS Safe Harbor Clause
Certain statements in this release concerning our future prospects are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements by their nature involve a number of risks and uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ materially from market expectations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to manage growth, intense competition among global
IT services companies, various factors which may affect our profitability, such as wage increases or an appreciating Rupee, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals, time and cost
overruns on fixed-price, fixed-time frame contracts, client concentration, restrictions on cross-border movement of skilled personnel, our ability to manage our international operations, reduced
demand for technology in our key focus areas, disruptions in telecommunication networks, our ability to successfully complete and integrate potential acquisitions, liability for damages on our
service contracts, the success of the companies in which TCS has made strategic investments, withdrawal of governmental fiscal incentives, political instability, legal restrictions on raising capital or
acquiring companies outside India, unauthorized use of our intellectual property, pandemics, natural disasters and general economic conditions affecting our industry. TCS may, from time to time,
make additional written and oral forward-looking statements, including our reports to shareholders. These forward-looking statements represent only the Company’s current intentions, beliefs
or expectations, and any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it was made. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements.

IT Services
Business Solutions
Consulting
Tata Consultancy Services Limited
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021
www.tcs.com

Building on belief

